Herbal Trade Skill Guide
	

  Herbal Trade Skill Guide
   by Crow


With the World of Warcraft beta economy bustling with activity, many players are asking how to make money. Each trade can be very complex and involved and even a little daunting. This guide will detail the casual and hardcore pursuit of alchemy, enchanting, and the necessary herbalism to pursue them.

Background
I made most of my WoW money with one character: my human priest. My priest is 150 skill in herbalism, alchemy, and enchanting. I'd say I've made more than 1000 potions and more than 1000 enchantments for money. This single character ha funded numerous tweak characters (Sorry if you are against tweaking).




Right now, enchanting recipes only go up to 150 skill, while though alchemy goes up higher, most of the recipes at that level aren't worth making. So, I decided to stay with all three tradeskills. For a while I operated the "Enchanting and Alchemy Co" guild with the sole purpose of making money in WoW's market. Result was at its highest, when, with 2 tweak characters already existing, I had more than 30g at level 17.

Currently, I am pursuing a rogue who is a master miner and smith. I also have a master skinner and leather maker. However, among all of these, my human enchanter has been my most profitable.

Herbalism
Picking herbs sounds pretty simple. In reality, it isn't. Some herbs are much harder to find than others, and when you are out searching for specific herbs, you need to know specific locations.

Youa re given an herbal-radar to detect herbs. I suggest your place this ability as an easily accessible hot-key, as you will be pressing this button a lot.

Luckily, WoW's herbs are found in predetermined locations. Their respawn times vary depending on the rarity of that herb. So, if you find an herb, remember where you found it. If it is a very rare herb, like steelbloom, write it down.

Each herb has a certain required skill in herbalism to pick it. Snakeroot, for instance, requires 25 skill in herbalism before you can harvest it. When you do harvest the herb, it will loot between 1 and 3 of the herb. As an herb goes up in required skill, so will its location become more elusive and its respawn time greater. Steelbloom, for example, is a rare herb and is not found in zones for levels below 20. So, it can be very dangerous to pick steelbloom if you are below level 20. The steelbloom will also respawn at a much lower frequency than, say, snakeroot, which reappears every 5 minutes or so.

Each herb also has a typical climate it grows in. Snakeroot, for instance, grows on hills and cliffs. So, if you are looking for snakeroot, make sure to use your herb-detection and travel near hills and mountains. You'll be sure to find plenty of snakeroot.

Here are the basic herbs categorized by the location they are found in. If the herb requires a difficult zone, the minimum zone level is listed beside the herb.


Open Space
Peacebloom
Magebloom (12+)
Crown Royal (19+)

Near Trees
Silverleaf
Thornroot (12+)

Hills/cliffs
Snakeroot
Steelbloom (19+)

Shade
Bruiseweed (12+)

Attached to Other herbs
SwiftThistle (12+)


There are other herbs out there, such as fadeleaf and liferoot, but the vast majority of all potions or enchantments do not use these. As new patches introduce new recipes and raise level caps, these will become more useful.

Buying herbs
Buying herbs is not as easy as it sounds. Most people who harvest herbs do so to make potions or enchant, as you do. Still, herbs can be found. The best places to buy any herb are where it is harvested. So, if you want thornroot, for example, go to Loch Modan or Westfall, where thornroot is commonly harvested. Waiting to buy herbs in the busy cities, like Stormwind, can be murderous. If you are not already widely successful at enchanting or alchemy, chances are you cannot outbid someone who is.






Enchanting and Imbuing
Enchanting means you are able to create a permanent effect on an item. Imbuing, on the other hand, is when you place a timed effect (usually 1 hour) on an item. Imbuing is great, but only enchantments are sold.

Imbuing is very useful before a duel or before your group digs down into a dungeon. Imbuing has a huge variety of effects, ranging from magic resistance to absorbing attacks. Still, few players pay for non-sustained effects, so imbuing recipes won't make you any money. These are good, however, to raise your skill in enchanting as you are leveling. Early on, you can use imbuing to power-level yourself until you have the skill to make enchantments.

Enchantments are typically higher in skill and require more difficult herbs. This makes sense, as enchantments are permanent. Players strongly desire enchantments on their "uber" equipment and will come to get another enchantment when they replace their old equipment. This makes enchanting a hot skill, since people need you and they need you repeatedly.

Whenever I am selling any item to a player, I examine their equipment. Note their class and level. You can probably use this information to suggest a sale, such as to a rogue, "I can enchant those boots to have +1 agi for you" if his boots look nice already. Players wont want enchantments on poor equipment.

If you loot a bind-on-equip item, you have a perfect opportunity to make a sale. Sell the item in auction. When the winning bidder comes to get the item, inform them that in fact, you cannot have the item enchanted once it has been equipped. Everyone knows that a player buying a rare item will want to equip it immediately. Voila! You just happen to be able to enchant it right now for a discount!

See my attached spreadsheet for a list of the best selling enchantments and potions. The ingredients of each are listed.





Alchemy
Alchemy is not nearly as profitable as enchanting is. However, alchemy has far more use in leveling and gaming to the alchemist than enchanting does to the enchanter. Potions can provide a huge array of valuable effect. However, there are few potions you can actually make a dollar at.

Included on the above-mentioned spreadsheet are only the most common, moneymaking potions. Yes, there are other potions, but I was only able to list what my character is capable of making or that I was able to find the ingredients for. As you raise your skill in alchemy, you can edit the chart and re-print of easy access to the information.

Alchemy does have the ability to make reagents though. Reagents are necessary ingredients in several trades, such as enchanting. The alchemist who is able to regularly produce these reagents, like fire oil, CAN make a lot of money. Otherwise, most of alchemy is personal benefit.

The drawbacks to alchemy also include space. Yes, space. You will quickly run out of bag-room if you are hauling around 10 kinds of herbs, 2 kinds of vials, and stacks of various potions. Early on you will want to purchase bags to help you. If you are having to destroy loot for the sake of keeping your herbs, you should consider this a loss and find some bigger bags!


The Art of Selling
Selling is where profit is made. Assuming you've gotten a few of the recipes listed in the spreadsheet, lets talk about how we can make the most of your services.

First, if you are low on an ingredient for a potion, do not make the potion yet. Instead, use the Alchemy menu and shift+click on the icon for the potion to link it in your sales pitch.

Sell your items where they are needed. Obviously if you are in the Searing Gorge, a fire resistance potion would be a hot-item. If you are selling enchantments, it is best to be where players are getting new equipment (Stormwind).

Discount in bulk. If you have the same price for a single unit as you do for multiple, no one will buy multiple from you if they weren't already. If you sell an item for 20s normally though, and discount it to 18s for multiple orders, you just might convince a few people to buy more.

Remember people's names. Write down the guy's name that bought 45 healing potions from you. Odds are, he will be wanting more sometime. People also come back to the tradesmen they know. If you are polite and have reasonable prices, many players will be writing your name down. Don't try to rip people off; you can permanently damage your ability to sell.

Don't spam a channel with a sales pitch. Spamming makes your services look common if you do it too much. Likewise, people get tired of seeing it and will feel adversely towards you. Not to mention, spamming over and over makes it look like your services aren't worth buying, as you are still looking for buyers.

Don't list your price in your sales pitch unless you are sure you cannot be undercut. Also remember that selling a service at a low price can mean that your competition will begin price matching it. If you aren't then able to keep your items at that price, you might find yourself out of business. Don't over or undersell anything!

I listed the median price for most of the potions and enchantments out there on the spreadsheet. Yes, your prices may vary, but these are reasonable prices to charge or pay for these services.



  



Macros
Macros make your life easy. Right above the chat scroll arrows on the left side of your screen, there is a punctuation bubble you can click on. This opens up the macro window. Here, you can assign an icon to a series of chat commands or speech. These macros can keep you off the keyboard and in the game. Here are some suggested macros that I've used to make money while saving me time.

Buy: "/2 Buying all herbs! Paying well for Thornroot and Steelbloom!

Enchanting: "/2 Enchanter open for business! 15s per 1h wep enchant, 20s for 2h wep, +30hp for 50s, +2 res all cloak for 15s, and many many more, message me"

Thank you: "/say Thank you very much. Write down the name Azrul for anything you need in the future" (note the ambiguity so that I can use for Alchemy or Enchanting customer)

There are many more. You can make them anything at all. Once you have 3-5 good macros, organize them on your 3rd or 4th hot-key bar. Then, whenever you are in a town, you can flip the bar open and instantly get across ant messages you need to.

I realize that each trade skillc an be very difficult to pursue. Please email any questions you have past those answered in this guide. Also, if you have a particular topic you'd like to see me write about, send me an email or post it in the forums. Thanks and good luck turning the green leaves into green paper!

-Crow

PS-I included an updated race/class stat sheet for the next push! You can print it out and fill out the missing numbers as we see them in the upcoming patch.

Herb.xls
Stat_Table.xls















The Paladin Chronicles - Paladin Guide
	


[Be sure to read part 1 of this series here! - WoW Staff]

This is the first class guide I've written for Ascension Web. I plan to use this format for other classes in the future. Feel free to make suggestions about this format, as I will definitely consider them.

Weapons available: One and two-handed maces or swords.

Armor available: All armor and shields.

Magic lines: All holy magic,Undead mastery, Seals, and Justice. Include healing, disease removal, shielding, resurrection, combat attacks, stuns, auras, buffs, and undead-specific attacks.

Auras- An aura is a magical effect that benefits the paladin and those around him. Some auras affect mobs as well. These cost no mana and last a long time. Only the paladin has auras and he can only use one at a time.

Seals- Seals are buffs that last a variable amount of time and benefit the character in a number of specific ways. Only the paladin has seals and the paladin may only cast 1 seal on a player at a time (though if two different paladins cast 2 different seals on the same player they both stay).

Lay-on-hands- This ability restores an amount of hit points to a friendly target equal to the number of maximum hit points the paladin has. When used on a warrior or rogue, this doubles their effectiveness. Its cooldown is 1 hour.



Different Kinds of Paladins

As is true with all hybrid classes, the paladin has many different roles he can fill. Here are just a few of the viable roles I have seen the paladin play:

Healer: Though the paladin may not be able to cast devastating spells at a distance, like a mage, he can place heavy amounts of talent points and equipment into intelligence and spirit. The paladin has a wide enough variety of spells to always benefit from more mana. The healer-paladin is similar to a priest, while being far more durable to attacks.

Damage Machine: Many would place the rogue, warrior, or mage atop the damage scale, but do not underestimate the paladin wanting success in the same area. With devastating holy strikes, holy/weapon specialization, and strength, a paladin can deal huge chunks of damage in single blows. This role is also viable as the paladin an already wear mail armor, allowing him to be toe-to-toe with even the most damaging mobs.

Tank: Differing from the damage machines, the tank paladin is built to last. High AC mail armor, defensive talent choices, stamina talents, buffs, and self-healing are all seen in paladin tanks. This is one of the paladin's most successful roles.

Solo: You can also choose to develop your paladin to solo well. By this, your paladin will be geared to your own playing desires. If you wish to avoid downtime, high spirit, mana, and health should be developed. The goal of the solo paladin is to never have an obvious weakness for which he will need a group. Luckily, the class is built virtually weakness-free.

Other: Remember that tradeskills can substantially add to your character. A healer who can make his own mana potions, for instance, is different than a healer who also researches first aid, to be able to bandage in addition to heal. As you play, you will find the role that makes you the happiest.


Weapon Choice

There is often a debate in weapon choice for each class. Right now, strength adds a flat amount of damage bonus to a paladin's attack. This bonus is constant even as cooldown of a weapon varies. This means that the lower the cooldown of a weapon, the more damage added from strength. I hope this system was an oversight, as right now, two-handed weapons really miss out here, as they typically have higher cooldowns.

You can calculate the damage per second (DPS) of a weapon by adding its minimum damage to its maximum damage and dividing by two times the weapon's cooldown. For instance, a mace might do 20-40 damage with a cooldown of 2.6.

(20+40)/(2*2.6) = 11.5 DPS.

DPS should be the primary means for choosing a weapon. You should also consider the benefit of a shield to satisfy your needs. If you want to be a tank, a shield and one-handed weapon is probably the choice for you.

There are some reasons to choose a two-handed weapon though. First, your critical hits will do more damage (though you must remember that you swing less frequently, and will thus get fewer criticals). Secondly, the weapon enchantments for a two-handed weapon add twice the bonus that a one-handed weapon gets. This means that as long as the two-handed weapon is more than half the speed of its one-handed comparison, the two-handed weapon gets a greater benefit from the enchantment.

You should strongly consider picking what looks cool as well. If you want a certain sword because of how it looks, pick it. Until PvP servers are up, overly concerning yourself about small details is pointless.

This brings us to the "sword or mace?" quest, where really, it is personal choice.


Key Spells, Auras, and Abilities

Healing

Heal Spells: These are effective, but become costly in mana. Without equipment and talent points to yield more mana, these healing spells are typically used once per combat and no more.

Healing Aura: Its downtime and travel time into health. This is especially useful in groups to prevent the mass consumption of food/mana.


Combat abilities

Holy Strike: Your weapon of choice, delivering large amounts of damage, which is added to your normal attack.

Fist of Justice: This is a stun ability that interrupts spells and sometimes even knocks the opponent down. It has a cooldown that allows it to be used 1-2 times per combat. When you are low on life, you can use the fist to stun your opponent while you cast heal. If a mob is attacking one of your casters, you can use this to stun the monster and free your friend. Of course, fist of justice also interrupts spells, so against any caster, this can be very useful. Lastly, you can use fist to stop running monsters or to stun a monster and then run away yourself.

Retribution aura: This aura deals a small amount of damage every few seconds to mobs around you. This is especially useful when fighting more than 1 mob. This aura also deals damage even while you are running or are stunned.


Buffs

Devotion Aura: Adding a substantial bonus to armor, this line of auras is useful in situations where several party members are being attacked or when the mob you are fighting attacks with a low cooldown.

Seal of Wisdom: This seal increases mana regeneration. This is perhaps the most powerful of the paladin seals.

Seal of Might: This seal increases damage per attack. As explained in character development, this is useful when a weapon has a low cooldown.

Seal of Salvation: This seal is not a buff, per say, but rather decreases the aggressiveness of mobs against the character whom the seal is on. This is crucial to cast on a group's healer. This can also make monsters run from you more quickly than they would otherwise.


Invulnerability

Seal of Protection: This seal lasts only 5 seconds and has a cooldown of two minutes. This is the only invulnerability option the paladin can put on another character.

Divine Favor: This spell creates a shield of invulnerability around the paladin only. The duration depends on the paladin's level, but ranges from 10-30 seconds. While inside, the paladin may not use offensive abilities.

Divine Shield: Similar to divine favor, but it lasts shorter and allows the paladin to attack while shielded. Using Divine shield will also cause your cooldown timer on divine favor to reset.

Undead

Seal of Righteousness: This added 10 damage to each attack vs. undead. This seal only lasts for 1 minute.

Exorcism: This is a ranged attack against undead only.

Sense Dead: This ability works like herbalism or mining as it displayed undead targets on the mini-map.


Interface and Managing the Paladin

The Paladin, like all characters can be difficult to manage. In the pics below, you see my two main hot-key bars. On the first bar I've included the most common, battle spells and abilities, while the second hot-key bar has my typically "after battle" abilities and abilities used less frequently (like anti-undead and resurrection).

You may also notice that I changed the hotkey of the default "-" and "+" keys to instead be "w" and "r." This is because I use "e-d-s-f" to control my movement and these keys are close-by for convenience. I also changed the f1 and f2 keys to correspond to my first and second hot key bars. This makes accessing any ability a mere combination of an f-key and a number. Re-binding the keys is a great way to reduce the complication of managing a character.

   



Solo Combat Techniques

There are a few different situations that arise, each of which requires its own considerations. You do not have to use all of the techniques described and may not even want to because of mana demand. Consider what is right for your play style, but also consider these techniques as efficient at killing. Lets look at combat from each of these situations.

Single melee mob: You should choose the seal of might and retribution aura as your tools. The seal of might will be of more consequence than 1 additional spell that the seal of wisdom might have provided. Retribution aura deals slightly more damage than devotion aura will prevent against one target.

Start by running into combat and using holy strike. If the monster has many hit points, you might want to use fist of justice immediately just to have it available again later in combat. Against weaker enemies, save the fist for when you need to heal or when he begins to run.

Throughout the battle, you should use holy strike as soon as the cooldown permits.

If you get low on life and need to heal, use seal of protection then cast heal on yourself. If the mob is low on life and you are too, use the divine shield and attack him for the kill. If the mob is high on life and you are low on life and mana, use the divine favor and run.


Single Caster Mob: Fight the mob just as you would a melee mob, but save the fist just before a spell has been cast by the caster mob. This way, they waste the maximum amount of time casting it and still lose the benefit. Because the caster mobs typically attack with large amounts of time between each attack, the devotion aura does not come into play as often as the retribution aura will.


Multiple mobs: If there is a caster in the multitude, you should kill him first. Think of a typical group you're in: doesn't it ruin your party when a monster runs by the tanks and kills the caster? The same is true for the mob horde attacking you.

If a mob is low, do not use your holy strike, but instead save it for your next target. When a mob runs, chase him down. Do not allow mobs to run off and come back with a vengeance (or even more mobs with them).


Dungeons: Dungeons are narrow, small, and packed with mobs. In a dungeon situation, it is best to not use retribution aura when you are solo. You will anger too mobs unintentionally. Instead stick to devotion aura during combat. You must save fist of justice for running mobs, as there is a far greater consequence for a mob getting away than outside of dungeons.


Group Combat Techniques

Though many people name the paladin as a support healer, I will instead discuss the group as a whole and what options you have.

Ask your group members early on what seal they want. Normally, high a priest and mage want a seal of salvation to reduce mob aggression against them. A warrior and rogue will prefer a seal of might. You, however, are definitely better off with a seal of wisdom, as you will be buffing and casting a great deal.

The aura you choose is also important. Have the ability to immediately switch to healing aura after each combat and then back into retribution/devotion aura as soon as combat begins (even if unexpectedly).

If there are multiple paladins in a group, divide the duties of seals between each of you. Remember that seals stack if from different players, so you and a paladin friend can each cast a different seal on one another and thus have 2 seals on each player. Additionally, auras stack. So, decide which aura you will use and your teammate can use a different one.

Watch out for your casters. If you see a caster of yours being attacked, immediately use fist of justice on the mob. While the mob is stunned you can use holy strike to aggravate him or you can cast seal of salvation on your caster to reduce the monster's anger. If you have neither, you can cast seal of protection on the caster and the mob will ignore the caster temporarily. You do not have a taunt, so it is important to handle this kind of mob problem fast. This even applies to warrior and rogues who have created too much mob aggression against them. After the battle, remember to change their seal back to normal.

Watch the life totals of all players. Even if you have a healer in the group, you can still be a life saving healer. You also have resurrection. If at the beginning of a long battle a healer or other caster dies, it is sometimes viable to raise them from the dead so they can drink and get back into the action.

Whenever you cast a round of seals, cast one on yourself. When you see your seal fading, you know it is time to buff the other players as well.

If the group has to run, let them go first. Once they have a head start, use divine favor and switch to healing aura and run. Once your favor has faded, cast seal of protection on yourself. Once the seal has run out, use fist of justice on the most dangerous of chasing mobs and continue to run.



Written by Crow















The Paladin Chronicles - Character Development
	

  The Paladin Chronicles
   by Crow

Former Premium Editor of www.warcraftstrategy.com
Author of over 50 Warcraft III and Frozen Throne strategy articles
Alpha/Beta tester for three consecutive Blizzard games (including Alpha of WoW)
Three times consecutively named on Blizzard's Friends List


Defenders of righteousness and crusher of skulls, the paladin's of Khaz Modan and Azeroth will not disappoint you. Through gameplay and decisions made in character development, your paladin can be a unique, powerful entity and a crucial team member. In this three-part piece, we will look at character development, the paladin class, and one paladin's adventure into the Deadmines of Westfall.


Part 1, character development

Everyone wants his or her character to be unique and effective. However, to meet both of these ideals, we cannot blindly make "different" decisions in our character's development and hope things come out right. Instead, we need information about the consequences of these decisions so we can make educated choices. Knowledge of base stats, talents, and trade skills is necessary for power and individually.


Being Different

Being different means making different choices. However, sometimes, as in the case of a rogue's development, choosing different might not make sense. You might want to raise the rogue's intelligence through talents, but what good does that actually do? You might end up with a unique rogue, but one who is very ineffective.

Most players will choose to place the maximum amount of possible talent points into agility. This may be the common choice, but agility does determine a rogue's damage bonus, chance to critical strike, and dodge ability. This choice is a realistic one. Each character should make realistic decisions like these when developing their character. Allow for debatable decisions to be your difference, not the core essentials.


Base Stats and Talent Points

In my previous article, "Choosing the Right Character," I briefly addressed each stat and the stat's impact on development. However, I did not discuss how these stats are improved as you level.

Each level, you gain a number of talent points. These points can purchase either base stat increases or other attributes, such as bonuses vs. undead, weapon skills or health regeneration. Your level and class determine which of these talents are available to you. Your equipment will also provide a great deal of increase to your base stats and your health/mana.

I encourage you to only use talent points to increase your primary stat and no other base stat. This is because once piece of equipment can easily provide enough stat bonuses for 5-10 levels worth of talent points. For instance, my paladin wields the "Slaghammer," which gives him +4 stamina and +4 strength. Through the talent system, to get the same stat increase, I'd need 8 levels or more worth of talent points. You should spend your talent points primarily on things that equipment cannot typically do, such as stealth detection, mana/health regeneration, or damage vs. undead.





Tradeskills

Tradeskills are a major defining point of your character. Look to tradeskills to solve the weaknesses of your character or to improve upon strengths you already have. My paladin, for instance, needs a great deal of equipment as he levels. For this reason, I've spent my tradeskill points in skinning, mining, and herbalism- all for the sake of making money for equipment.

A warrior might choose first aid or alchemy to provide him with healing in combat. Another warrior might choose mining and engineering for added offense. Even a third warrior might choose cooking and survival skills to reduce downtime of himself and his party. Each of these choices is viable and will greatly affect your gaming experience each time you log on.

When you gain a level, do not feel pressured to immediately distribute your talent and tradeskill points. Take time to understand how you want your character to play. Ask players who have had success in various tradeskills to see how it has affected their character. And, of course, you can experiment. After all, it's a game!



Tomorrow: Part 2, paladin guide

Friday: Part 3, adventure in deadmines



-Phil, aka Crow/Thurlar













