Druid - Druid at Level 1-20 - World of Warcraft Guru 3 Nov 2004

Home / Classes / Druid / Druid at Level 1-20

By : Medievaldragon
Rating : Average Rating : 7.67 From 12 Voter(s)


The Druid Class was added around July-August 2004 to World of Warcraft. Some find the Druid somewhat weak. I decided to play the Druid which is currently level 20. The range of spells and abilities are somewhat good. They allow the Druid to be a jack-of-all-trades. You can choose to be a healer, a powerhouse Bear or Cat. You can be a seal to explore the ocean. In seal form you can collect pearls and other items from seashells. You can buff your team and keep it alive. I have good impressions of the Druid class so far. The Quests offer a lot of new Warcraft Lore that I will summarize later.
************************************************

At low level, Druids are in trouble. Small HP and Mana. Mana should be used wisely and dedicate time to using the staff. Recommendable to start joining teams. This way you stay alive longer and level up faster.

Each time you level up, go to the Druid trainer for more abilities and upgrades. Focus on Healing touch and Wrath. Sometimes you will find drops of Staves. When you don't, ask someone or check auctions for a Rough Wooden Staff which makes 11-18 damage.

There are quests that require you to be in a team. The world is harsh in certain areas. Never go to the Druid's Grove tunnels unless you are level 10 and have a team of 5 players. I was stuck there for a while. The tunnel is very narrow and it is a labyrinth inside. So your way out isn't really point A to point B. You won't make it if you run away as there are more than 40+ Furlborgs with higher level.

At level 10, you are sent to visit Darkshore, via a Hyppogryph-- located near the Bear Tree in Darnassus(that pink glowing tree is the teleport to the flight docks). Plain said, for a lvl 10 Druid, Darkshore can be a nightmare. Bears and Moonstalker cats will make your life miserable. Use bear form to run away when needed. Bear form can outrun them.

Avoid Feracious plainstriders if you are solo. Those give a hard time even to lvl 18 players. Darkshore is always dark. So you will hardly see the land unless you push your Gamma settings to the far right in the video settings. In the teen levels you get Wrath rank 2 --making good damage; and Healing Touch lrank 2 may heal nearly 150HP. In Darkshore, you will find out that your Druid is a team's blessing. Druids are a necessary healer in any team.

After alternating strategies and many trials and errors, I felt comfortable mana-wise shooting the enemy twice with Wrath, then using my staff and focusing my mana into healing my team.

The Team really goes down in Darkshore without a healer. I kept pumping healing all the time. Remember, if your team stays alive thanks to healing, you avoid those long and annoying walks from your graveyard to the corpse, you level up faster as efficiency is increased and you loot good for your assistance to the team. Buy armor, gloves, and other stuff at the Armor vendor and leatherwork vendor when possible. You will also get good item-drops, and quests will make you choose 2 or more rewards, which will help you acquire good items.

If you aren't level 19, I recommend not going to Ashanvale far to the south of Darkshore. Wolves, Spiders, and Dark Cultists are level 20 or more. Murlocks kill you iwith just 4 shots of poison. I was in a team of 4 players and we had a hard time as our aggro would lure 2-4 at once to us. Healing touch, though, proved to be good; but having low mana capacity would put me in trouble. Keep those milk drinks handy to sit and replenish mana before engaging more creeps. Usually, your teammates know the importance of the healer and they give you melon water and milk to keep your mana high. I was still level 17. Even with the high stakes and trouble in Ashenvale, I stayed with higher level 22-28 players to help with healing in exchange of teaming to level up my Druid.

I visited Menethil near Iron Forge--in Azeroth; and later Theremore--south-east of Kalimdor. The good convinience in World of Warcraft is the availability to use Hyppogryphs, teleports and Gryphons. From Menethil, I took a flight to Iron Forge(Helm's Deep) and there I took a Gryphon to Stormwind City. I explored around and stayed until I reached level 19. Good drops and many players. Level 10 Human players were grateful to have a level 18-19 Druid near them. I took time to help a few players level up out of good-heart. I could kill creeps with 4 smacks of my staff(91/100 skill) and 2 Wrath shots.

I kept going south to Westfall and Duskwood. This areas were a real pain for my Druid even at my level 18-19. I helped some level 20-24 Humans. Duskhood has many high level Spiders, Wolves, Undead skeletons, Mage skeletons, Ghouls and I raised an eyebrow when I saw a guy running at me in the road. When I looked forward a colossal Abomination passed me in front chasing the guy. Of course, when he noticed me I got slashed and died fast. Note to self: If someone is fleeing at top speed, don't stay wondering what is he fleeing for, run like a sissy too.

Finally, I decided to return to Darkshore. I went to Iron Forge and Stormwind to sell ... coughs ... 65 Copper Bars. Sold them for 1 Gold. Gained a level while exploring. I was satisfied. Back home, at Darkshore, I decided to complete the Stonetalon Peak Quest. My mission was to talk to Kaela-- a Dryad, to inform the news of corruption in the forests of Darkshore and Ashenvale.

Believe me. Do not complete the Stonetalon Quest until you are level 19-20 and you are accompanied by 4-5 team members. This zone is the worst nightmare. I tagged along with a Gnome Mage level 28. I was a Druid level 19. Usually, players do not like to team up with lower level players. My aggro was huge in this Elite zone. I would lure creeps far away which would come to attack us as soon as my aggro range scratched them.

Why is this zone not recommendable for under level 20 players? I will mention few reasons:

- Chimaeras
- Harpies
- Elemental Stone spirit
- Elemental Fire spirit
- Wyverns
- Basilisks
- Corrupted Treants(12 feet tall)
- The Tree deforestation loggers: composed of Humans, Dwarves, Gnolls, Kobolds and Ogres.

The harpies alone cast a rain of thunderbolts that killed us whenever they casted them and making us walk a long trip to our corpse. The tree loggers, some cast rain of fire. I managed to counter that by running in circles around the caster. That keeps me away from the fire and harms the caster instead.

In this quest adventure full of adrenaline and dangers, I leveled up to lvl 20. My current stats are Health 466 + Mana 499.

Strength 33
Agility 38
Stamina 39
Intellect 36
Spirit 34
Attack 116
Power 46
Damage 8.79
Defense 95
Armor 173

My rate of Mana regeneration has been faster since lvl 18. I can pump out healing to my team in a row and rarely go low in Mana. A team without a Druid can barely manage it. Many times I saved the life of each player, which proves my hypothesis that Druids are the main battery of a team to keep working together. Saves time as no one needs to walk to their corpse from afar.

Thorns rank 2 is available near level 18, can be casted 30 yards away, at a cost of Mana 80. Causes enemy attacking you a 6 nature damage. Thorns last for 10 minutes.

Wrath rank 3 at lvl 18 costs 55 Mana and causes 48-55 nature damage from 30 yards away. Now with a huge pool of Mana, I let someone lure a unit to us and cast entangle, then Faerie Fire, and 2-3 Wrath shots-- which takes away a good chunk of the enemy's Hit points(HP).

Mark of the Wild rank 3 is available at level 20 and costs 95 Mana. Increases friendly target's armor by 30 and adds 4 to all attributes for 30 minutes. Can be casted 30 yards away.

Faerie Fire has proven useful since level 18. It decreases the enemy armor by 50, costs 55 Mana. Use it as the first shot toward the enemy. It will decrease 50 armor over 40 seconds, and avoids enemies' usage of stealth and invisibility. Some Cultists like to become invisible and to punch you.

Healing Touch rank 3 allowed me to heal 150 HP since level 16, and its cost was 116 Mana. Now at level 20, Druids have access to Healing Touch rank 4-- which heals 311-381 HP in a radius of 40 yards. Costs 185 Mana though.

Entangle Roots rank 2 costs 85 Mana and causes 50 nature damage over 14 seconds. Needs to be casted outdoors within a radius of 30 yards from the target.

At level 20, you acquire Starfire which costs 105 Mana. It causes 89-119 damage to the target within 30 yards.

There are other spells available that I prefered not to pay for.

- Rejuvenation
- Regrowth
- Cure poison

Druids can shapeshift into Bear at lvl 10, Seal form at lvl 16 and Cat form is available at lvl 20.

Pity that Seal form has no attack abilities. It can swim at higher speeds and doesn't need to breath air. If you think you can reach Maelstrom in this form you are wrong. As soon as you reach dark waters-- which denotes depth waters, a fatigue bar starts a countdown. Even Ghost form gets the fatigue bar and your ghost dies and returns to the graveyard. Blizzard has high measures to keep you away from where you are meant to be during Beta.

Proof to that is that when I walked north of Ashanvale toward Felwood, a scary apparition stopped me and left me breathless. It simply came out of nowhere. As I approached, a huge Infernal showed up off its invisibility. It was just standing there. It has a label saying: Blizzard Guardian. Of course, I tried to go around it, but as I went forth, out of invisibility, showed up a second Infernal on my direction. Did I dare to run past them? Don't think so. Their level was unspecified, and replaced by a skull of death icon. That usually means, you are dead on a first strike.

Azshara is another place that really freaked me out. The land is a deep dark orange with a scary music. It raised my paranoia to the top. I kept looking left and right using my camera view thinking that any second I would get ambushed by high level monsters. The looks of the land and the music alone are a deterrant from going any further. As I kept going into Azshara, I finally saw what seems to be Guardians or extra high level units. Highborne Spectres and Nagas with a "??" symbol which denotes an unspecified level. That usually means over level 30. I head back of course.

The Quests are just great. I took screenshots of each Quest for those that do not mind spoilers. I will make them available soon for your enjoyment.

I would have wished never to return to Stonetalon peak, but the last quest is sending me to acquire ingredients for an explosive device to scare away the Loggers. I need to visit Iron Forge; and later Stormwind for a Spell ingredient. Then return to Stonetalon Peak to deliver them to Gadix the Dwarf. It seems that Dwarves are willing to teach Night Elves how to use Science in combination with magic so that they can use alternatives to avoid the use of magic.

A quest I haven't carried out requested me to return to Darkshore at Blackfathom to get samples of brain cells from Naga and Satyrs. It seems that the Blood Elves might have a transformation soon because of the use of Arcane Magics in Outland. An Elf scientist wishes to find out through the study of this brains what may be the evolution of the Blood Elves and also Night Elves.

To summarize the Night Elves's storyline, Warlocks from around the world are gathering in Darkshore. As the plot advances, we find out that this Warlocks have partnered with the Naga and the Satyrs. Now there is a new class of Elf. The Highborne spectres which are the dead highborne of the Sundering that created the Maelstrom. They are ghosts in penance at the service of the Naga and Satyrs. This unholy alliance may proof to be what Katricia, World of Warcraft Community Manager, said last year in the last Fan Sites Chat.

A World Event that will change the World of Warcraft. South of Darkshore is a Quest where we found a Giant Skull with a sword through it. Onu, the Ancient of the Lore, said that the skull belonged to one of the Dark gods. Seems that when the Titans first came they had a battle against the Dark gods and now a skull fossil was found. This skull is over 40 feet tall. The Warlock cultists are composed of Dwarves, Gnomes, Humans, Orcs, and Dark Elves-- yet another elf faction.

Currently this are the Elf factions:
Night Elves
Blood Elves
Lordaeron Elves that stayed loyal to the Alliance
Highborne Elf spectres
Azshara's Naga
Outland Naga(at the command of Ilidan)
Dark Cultist Elves

A hint in one of the Quests let us know that the Warlocks, Satyrs and Nagas formed this alliance to either steal the magic from the Dark gods or to awaken them from their prison. It is still unclear at level 20 Quests what they really wish to accomplish. For a bit of Warcraft Lore, The Titans that created the Well of Eternity had come thousands of years ago to the planet. They found dark gods and elementals causing chaos in the planet. The Titans imprisoned the dark gods in the core of the planet and created the Well of Eternity to spring life over the planet.

Everything points to the future release of the dark gods as a possible invasion of elementals and dark gods. Something that caught my curiosity is the mention of a Human Wizard that learned Night elf Druidism. No one knows how he learned Druidism. We haven't seen this Wizard yet. All we know is that an Elf female told us that he is using the Druidic knowledge to corrupt the Furlborgs. My guess is that the Furlborgs and rabid bears are a diversion while the Warlocks-Satyrs-Naga alliance do their work.

For some reason, I think this wizard might be Deathwing. Dragons can shapeshift into anything. In War of the Ancients, a dragon was shapeshifed in the form of a Tree, spying upon Cenarius. Krasus the Dragon-- from Day of the Dragon, always takes the shape of a Elf. He was in the Kirin Tor for years posing as a spy but became benevolent and friend to the Humans. Deathwing, have shapeshifted in the past as a human too. His human name was Prestor in Day of the Dragon pocketbook. Curiously, in Stormwind City, child King Anduin's advisor is named Prestor II.

There is another quest that mentions the 5 Dragon Aspects. One hints that Deathwing might have turned evil 10,000 years ago with the corruption of the dark gods, since he was the Earth warder.

Ricahrd A. Knaak's book-- War of the Ancients: Well of Eternity-- mentions a chamber in the core of the planet where the 5 dragon aspects used to have meetings at. Alexstraza the Queen dragon mentioned that there was a wall in that chamber that none of the dragons had been able to breach. They have gave up trying to breach it. Although it is not said what is beyond that wall, my guess is that the wall is the prison of the Dark gods. Somehow, Deathwing and the Dark gods have some connection. Alexstraza said in the pocketbook that the Titans might possibly have created this mysterious chamber. We will soon find out.

