Topic of the Week - Is The Horde Evil?
07-14-2004

Is The Horde Evil?

Is the Alliance Good? Or perhaps they are simply neutral factions with a difference of opinion. The horde races are ugly and their spells are darkness. The Alliance has pretty, nice, fluffy races that use light for their spells. Do we have any reason to sympathize with the Horde? With the Alliance?

What good is a game that doesn't have the motivation of the fight between good and evil?

Read the discussion and post your response here.

This week's winner is segabytes :

This is kind of long sorry :-)

To the person who equated the horde to Nazi's you may want to rethink your reasoning. It is really The Alliance, humans in particular, who show traits of racial supremmecy and the desire for greedily expanding their borders.

Trolls, like ogres and other goblinoid races from both WoW lore and traditional fantasy are in fact inherently evil. By that I mean they are motivated purly by selfishness and greed, they ally with similarly minded races only becasue they feel it will feed thier greedy desires. The Darkspear tribe in WoW is no different. Murlocs had all but wiped them from the planet so they sought out the help of the nearest faction they could, which happened to be the Orc/Tauren alliance. Good thing too because if it were humans they would have been finished off because they're "ugly."

The Forsaken are really dogs without a leash. Yes Sylvanis threw of thier oppressers (Arthas and the Lich King) however it was never for freedom, merely greed and the desire for vengance. They are very evil and kill to satisfy their own thirst and to bolster thier numbers. I really don't see why Thrall accepts them into the horde, except maybe because Sylvanis lies and claims to want to help the Horde attain freedom when really all they want is to corupt... well everything.

The Orcs and Tauren are similar, and probably the most noble, because they (now) fight for freedom, and the right to have land and live as they choose(Orcs for freedom from The Burning Legion and Humans, Tauren for freedom from Centaurs.)

Humans in traditional fantasy and in WoW are always a mixed bag of good and evil. Some fight for greed, others fight for security of their homelands. In WoW I think the Dwarfs and Gnomes fight because if they didn't the humans might kick them off thier lands.

The Night Elves seem like lost kittens. They lost thier imortality, their attempts to get it back have aroused the interest of The Burning Legion, their numbers are dwindling, and new magics are corrupting their way of life. I think they're scared really and just put up a tough front, of course they want to protect thier home, and for now at least the humans seem to tolerate them. I think in the not so distant future though they may become alienated like the bloodelves were. 

Runner-up #1 is Elandyll :

The way the public sees both sides has greatly evolved since the very first warcraft...

In WC I, the Orc Legions invade Azeroth, killing king Llane along the way, and using dark and Evil Neromantic/Demonic magic.

In WC II, given the advance of what is now considered the Horde (they have allied ogres and Trolls), the humans forge an alliance with High Elves (at the time just Elves) and Dwarves to push them out of the land of Lordaeron. The Horde is still very much considered evil and they even get to enslave Alexstraza, the Red Dragon Queen, in order to use her offsprings as mounts of war.

With WC III, the background story is revealed, and it appears the Orc legions were being used as pawns the whole time, since their great oracle Ner'Zhul on Draenor (plan of origin) made a pact with Kil'Jaeden (lieutenant of Sargeras, creator of the Burning Legion). By having the orcs drink the blood of the demon Manoroth, the pact of Bloodlust was forged. With the return of the burning legion, it will take all the wisdom of the new Warchief Thrall and the help of the despised elves and humans to break the pact (thanks to Thrall's brother, Grom Hellscream, who will kill Manoroth at the cost of his own life).

It appear clear that indeed the Orcs have been evil under the Legion's influence, and are now back to their old traditions (seemingly close to the Tauren way of life, perhaps only more brutal).

The Forsaken faction on the other hand, was forged by SylvanAs Windrunner (now a "Dark Ranger" queen of Banshies, formerly a Ranger commander of the High Elves armies) out of a will of freedom first , from the Scourge and the Lich King's influence, and of revenge from Arthas who killed her while he was ravaging Quel'thalas and above all made her a slave spirit to the Lich King. Her motives, as hinted by the Undead introduction of the game, are very selfish and she obviously do not care for other living creatures. That would make her evil. I see the alliance with the horde only a mere way of getting her revenge over the much hated Lich King/Arthas, knowing that an alliance with the Humans would be impossible -damned "hollier than thou" paladins.

Now, the humans have evolved has well. From a race described as mostly noble (early wars), everything went down hill since the great victory of Lordaeron (and the destruction of the dark portal). The alliances of the kingdoms within lordaeron started to crumble (see "Day of the Dragon" book to have an idea about that) while the humans feeling toward the other races inside the alliance such as dwarves and elves were getting negative.

It comes to the point of when in "The Frozen Throne", the Blood Elves prince, Kael'thas, has to obey the arrogant orders of Grand Marshal Garithos, which are mostly to be the guard dog of the human lands while the front battle versus the Scourge is raging.

Arrives the moment when, having no other choice but to accept the help of the Nagas to accomplish a suicide mission ordered by Garithos, their whole race is declared heretic and is awaiting their execution in prison under the accusation of trahison. It's only thanks to the Naga that they will escape a certain death.

Now, the behavior of the humans has been gradually going downward to the point of sometime being evil.

Conclusion ?

The "world of warcraft" is one of shades of gray, very fortunately, the opposite ends of the spectrum being, imho, the Tauren and Night Elves on one end, and The Scourge(extreme) and the Forsaken(mysterious motives) on the other.

I see the main motives of races as a whole like this:

Scourge : eradicating all living creatures and incorporating them under the service of the Lich King
Forsaken: imho same as above, but replace Lich King by Sylvanas
Dwarves : pushing the undeads and orcs away from their lands, while getting more and more items out of archeology (a whole race of Ninja Looters)
Gnomes : Gaining their own city ? They love to invent/create (same as Goblins, cept much less chaotic) and would like to do that in peace.
Humans : to regain the control over the lands of Lordaeron, and reestablish the dominance of the humans over the whole continent of Azeroth (the Dwarves can have their mountains). When it's done .. there's Kalimdor to worry about.
Night Elves : Free their lands of the newcomers, and if possible regain their immortality through the Tree of Life (isolationists, needing the help of the Alliance though)
Orcs : Securing their new homeland, they know the humans won't be long before having the desire to get rid of em alltogether.
Tauren : to Live in peace, and make sure other races will respect their sacred grounds and beliefs.
Trolls : Du Batouh Gandja ? (I think they have no clue, and are following the stronger/ closest way of living atm) They like to kill, cook and eat -not necessarily in that order- and are what I would call "quasi evil". This is an evil out of being .. err.. say "simple" , not purpose.

whew .. sorry for the long post.

Runner-up #2 is Destructive_Duck :

The horde is not evil...

The problem is that each side simply cannot tolerate the other side. It's an age old battle. Somehow, a long time ago, they began to fight - perhaps because they lived near each other and couldn't settle on how to split the land or the cultural differences...

So now it's just ingrained in their minds - the alliance and the horde are enemies and they must destroy each other.

Obviously, by now, after all this fighting, each side views the other as evil...anyone who has had enough of their own kind killed by another will view the other side as evil.

But really...when you look at it...the horde isn't much different from the alliance. I mean, obviously we don't see this in world of warcraft...but the horde, just like the alliance, has young to care for and provides for their own kind. After all, what else is questing? Surely anyone who risks his own life to protect his land and help his people can't be all that bad?










Topic of the Week - Trade Skills
07-01-2004

Trade Skills

Blizzard has put together an extensive set of trade skills, from gathering the materials to making the items. You can develop each trade skill as long as you acquire the training points.
Beta Trade Skills.

What do you think of acquiring your own materials?
You can't fail when making an item so there's no problem losing materials, will that affect the value of crafted items?
Do you think that hunting for materials will be easier or harder than purchasing from an NPC?
Any general thoughts on the crafting system?
How will crafting affect non-crafters, for example cooking?

Read the discussion and post your response here.

This week's winner is Aridon:

What do you think of acquiring your own materials?

I like that you can go out and get your own materials or if you choose buy them at auction. Its nice that there is a two way market for goods, crafters have the choice to go out and harvest their own materials themselves (making a higher profit) or taking the easy route and buying the materials need from the auction house.

You can't fail when making an item so there's no problem losing materials, will that affect the value of crafted items?

Perhaps, there is one easy way to control the supply of uber crafted loots and that is through material drops.

I think that eventually there needs to be a decay or soul binding system to even crafted loot. Otherwise as the game progresses crafters will be needed less and less and old crafted gear ends up on the auction block, just as good as if it was made by a crafter today, only cheaper. That is really the serious issue i see comming with crafting in WoW and it should be interesting to see how it gets addressed.

Do you think that hunting for materials will be easier or harder than purchasing from an NPC?

All things equal and assuming an unlimited amount of money, it will always be "easier" to buy the materials you need from another player or an NPC.

I think that crafters looking to squeeze in some extra profit will go through the trouble of harvesting themselves while adventurers with no interest in crafting will sell materials they gather for some cash on the auction house.

Any general thoughts on the crafting system?

The issues I see are:

1. Diversity of items that can be crafted. Bliz needs to really make crafting viable at all levels. Perhaps from 5-15 the best boots you can get in game are crafted while from 15-25 its a set of gloves and so forth and so on. All trade skills should also be viable or they should be removed and added later once they are worth the effort.

2. Deflation of value. This will be a serious problem unless crafted items are made soul bound on use or item decay is added. Eventually the market will become saturated with crafted equiptment items and crafters will have no market for goods.

3. Item drop updated are made frequently to the game, so should crafting item updates. I don't want to go 3 years playing WoW and not have any new items added to the crafting lines. It seems Dev's take forever to do it if the ever get around to it.

4. I do like that anyone can dabble in crafts as they please and I think there will be more than a few people taking up some of the major crafts to be somewhat selfsufficient. This will help the market for popular raw materials as many adventurers will not want to take the time to harvest stuff themselves.

How will crafting affect non-crafters, for example cooking?

See my #4 from above. I think that most players will pick up essential lines of crafting to become self sufficient and for those that are true adventures not wanting to take the time to harvest ingredients themselves; the auction house system will be invaluable.

I think that currently we will see the consumable market (potions, bombs, jumper cables etc..) done by most players to be self sufficient. The true traders will be more inclined to handle the armor / weapon making. 










Topic of the Week - Children's Server
06-24-2004

Children's Server

My little nine year old nephew likes to follow me around. He especially enjoys watching me play DAoC. He thinks the Glacier Giant is pretty cool. He was telling me the other day he wants to buy the game and play on my "team" with me. While I love having him around, there are things in DAoC, namely other players, I don't want him exposed to.

While reading in my newest issue of Electronic Games Monthly the other day I read a little blurb about settings on video games much like the filters you can get for your TV. Apparently with an Xbox for example, you can program what level of games it can play so that your children can't play "unapproved" games.

What if something like this was implemented in an MMORPG? Such as a "children safe" sever. A server with filters, or had an age limit or something of that nature. For those of you who are parents or have family who play with you do you, would that make you more inclined to purchase the game? Would it even be possible to implement something like this? Any thoughts in general?

Read the discussion and post your response here.

This week's winner is MutedRage:

I say no way. Now here are my reasons.

First and foremost I will never rely on technology setting "acceptable" levels of content for my child.

Secondly, I think anything that is "child geared" will instantly attract perverts (call me paranoid). Even with safeguards in place I still seeing a huge potential for very bad things.

Third when my son wants to play a video game (he's 4 right now) he sits in my lap and we play the game together (had many many terrible deaths due to this in DAoC but that is fine by me). If I am playing the game with him then I do not want a child's game in front of me, I would rather have a semi-adult game that I won't fall asleep to thus making issues 1 and 2 applicable once more.

Fourth when my son gets a tad older, the games he plays I will play as well. If they are online games he will only be allowed to play them during certain hours. Guess who will be there with him?

So in conclusion, I think depending on the level of paranoia from the child's parent that something like this could be good. However for me I would have to say no.

BTW I feel that a good age for me to start allowing my son a little more freedom on things like this would be 15ish and even then it will all be monitored until he no longer wishes to abide by the rules of my house (aka moves out.) 

Runner-up #1 is KenelmG:

Man tuff question, I can see both sides. My 12 year old plays most of my games with me and he is used to some "adult type" stuff (mostly language). If I had to pick an answer (since its a Poll I do) I would have to side with no to a childrens server. I hate ratings on video games as well as movies and I despise the V chip. The morality that the child learns should be instilled from his parents, not the government or not the gaming industry. I would put the filter on, let him play and check up on him (chat logging on, stuff like that) but more importantly I instill rules on him. He knows to come tell me if someone is talking inappropriately or if he gets uneasy about something.

There virtually is no gore in the game so the only thing to shield children from would be other people and possibly language. One easily fixed by the filter.

Keep an eye on your kids, instill good morales and values to them, turn them loose and check up on them.

Should work fine.

Runner-up #2 is Seviel1:

While a childrens server is on the whole a nice idea. I think that it wouldn't work unless as in the case of the disney game, it is a whole game. And therefore not likely to attract people who will try and subvert the system for harmless or otherwise fun.

And filters don't work so well either. THere are many ways to get around filters. You could probably hire a single programmer to do nothing but update the filter list for 8hrs a day.

And something I found out on City of Heroes, which has the a filter. Typing God was filtered. But typing in Buddha or Allah or any other religions diety went through just fine. So you are having to deal with whatever that company considers profanity/inflamatory and not personally your own moral guidelines.

I think parents should play with their kids until they are old enough to go on their own. The ones that don't are probably the same ones that take their 6 or 7 year olds to see Freddy Vs Jason.
















Topic of the Week - PvP Server
06-17-2004

PvP Server

Blizzard is now adding a PvP Server. There's a general explanation of how they are begining to implement PvP. There has been a lot of discussion in regards to the entire PvP issue. Check out the Patch Notes and let us know what you think so far.

Read the thread and respond here.

This week's winner is MrLivo:

Gonna go off on a tangent about casual/consensual pvp in general here...

I subscribe to the "PVP is all or nothing" newsletter. Consensual pvp is usually ridiculously implemented - AC's "PKLite" for example. "All the fun of PKing... but, uh, without really PKing them! Really!" PVP should have consequences. It should mean something. Yeah, it might suck getting stunganked and having your body camped, but at least it means something. It gives you incentive to try harder next time, to strategize, to form friendships and ultimately obliterate the opposition. I mean, that's what it's about right?

This horrific war between the Alliance and the Horde has been going on for one...two...three...four? games now. I tell you what, Lothar and Cho'gall and Khadgar weren't hanging out in the "Safe Zone" waiting until they outnumbered the PKs before going red... they were neck-deep in more conflict than they could swing a sword at, and they didn't instigate all of it when it was convenient for them.

Of course, not everyone enjoys min/maxed gank groups murdering them at the merchants in town (which is what it boils down to in most games), but I'll take settling a score with another player over any "raid" content you could throw at me.

That said, I'd like to see them do away with the concept of "safe zones". If enough Horde get together, who's to say they can't raid Stormwind and hold it until the Alliance pushed 'em back? and what if, in doing so, something semi/permanent resulted? Nonconsensual pvp is rough, but it's fair, and it fits the WarCraft universe.












Topic of the Week - Kill Stealing
06-07-2004

Kill Stealing

Kill stealing is when a group or player would attack a mob that another group or player had already attacked. This will lower experience or give the person who is kill stealing an opportunity to acquire the loot or whatever items the mob drops. It looks as though Blizzard has found a way to prevent this.

From the beta site patch notes:

Now the first player or group to damage a monster will "tap" them. When the tapped monster dies, that player or group will get the experience and loot from the kill. Other players will be able to tell if a monster is tapped because it's portrait will turn grey. Players are free to help kill the tapped monster, but they will receive no experience or loot from the kill. Even with help, the player or group who initially tapped the monster will gain full experience from the kill.

What do you think of this idea?
Are there any problems that could arise from such a system?
Do you think that it will be effectual for the most part?

Share any thoughts you have on the kill stealing or "monster claiming" issue.

Read the thread and respond here!

This week's winner is Norzeman:

I like Tapping.

You can tell if the monster is tapped and more often than not you are battling through with two groups any way so you trade taps.

You cant really powerlevel your neb this way as you only get points for mob that are somewhat higher than you adjusted by level. I dont not the exact algolrythm, but its something like a lvl 1 can get points upto a lvl 6 while a lvl 10 can get exp points up to a lvl 20....so you would really only be getting about the same number of points you would if you soloed them. Tapping does not encourage power leveling.

Tapping does discourage kill stealling.

Suppose a player goes and taps all the Mobs...Well guess what...he can have them...and I hope he lives because its gonna be one hellofa fight watching him fight all those mobs at once.

Also, if you tap the mobs and run away then it will become untapped at some didstance. They also will become untapped if you dont fight them after a few minutes. If you tap a mob, you cant stealth in combat mode (except with some timed abilities) so you can expect a chase.

There is an issue however.

What happens when there are two or more groups fighting in the same area and are after the same mobs. What ends up happening is that you start to leap frog and compete with each other to try and tap the next mob that pops. Also, Ive seen where we will collect all the close by mobs we can handle thereby clearing out the immediate area. Perhaps you can call this Tap Hoarding.

Runner-up #1 is Zeetes:

Well, in theory it is a great system.

What stops a person from intentionally attacking a monster knowing another person is about to. Pretty simple to throw a fast level 1 spell on it when you see the other party winding up.

Then there will be the blatantly obvious powerleveling where a lowbie attacks a much higher monster and his high level buddy will in turn kill it, thus the the lowbie getting full exp.

Also I have noticed that near guards, as long as I attack the monster first, and the guard kills it, it is only maybe 20% chance that I will gain exp for the kill and loot rights. Is this the same for normal exp? Because if I do atleast 50% damage, most of the time I will recieve full exp even if the guard kills it.

Overall it is still better than any previous system I have seen implemented, and I hope it works, and it should work well for quests and named mobs.

Runner-up #2 is Hinovae:

This can be a very good, yet very bad system.

First, This is a great way to claim your kills. In AC this was a huge problem. A fellowship would be working on a group of monsters and random person could come up and lure them all away to finish them off. Apparently if you did this in WoW the first person that 'tagged' the creature would gain all the experiance. In this sense, it's a very good idea and way to keep people to themselves.

However.. It seems the down sides to this *could* be worse if the little details aren't noticed. As Mallik already stated, It would be too easy to level up new players. You'd just take them along for them to hit everything once and the higher level could finish them all off for the lower level.
Also, It could still be possible to steal people's kills. A person could follow your group and just make sure to hit everything first..
..Or vise versa, you could 'tag' everything around, leaving others with no hunting spot.














Topic of the Week - FLUFF!!
05-27-2004

FLUFF!!

Well firstly, what's fluff? For the most part, fluff is comprised of things that are there for fun and don't really have much utility in the game. But on the other hand, what someone thinks of as fluff, someone else might really dig, so it can be opinion based. For example, the marriage post. For some, in game marriage will not enhance their play time, but others are looking forward to it.

So what do you consider fluff?
What's some fluff you would like to see in WoW?
Do you feel attention to the small silly things detract or add to the game?
Do you feel fluff is necessary?

Just a few thoughts to get you started, whether your fluff depends on adding fur trim to your breastplate or ordering a mug of ale at the local pub and actually drinking it.

Read the thread and respond here!

This week's winner is sadbad_Pellinor:

I'm a big fan of fluff, it adds to the game and I think it can kill some of the monotony in MMOs. All kinds of different armor designs and dyes are a start. I can't count how much plat/time I have spent in DAOc dyeing my armor over and over again.

Clothing that you can wear over armor would be another really cool thing.

Mini games of some sort, like (and I don't know if this is in WoW) chess or other board games in like inns in this case.

Lots of diverse terrain, in Daoc this was a problem for me considering I played hib for a good whole and the whole damn realm is green and has trees. It would be a real treat to some dynamic terrain that's not the same for ingame-miles and miles.

Lots of animated emotes.......animated emotes are always fun.

Idle animations
Lots of different spell effects and animation for combat moves.

Hats! Hats! hats! I was overcome with joy when they put the hats in DAOC I never go anywhere without my pink jesters hat, it makes me look like a fruit cake but I love it.

Different modules for weapons, dyes for weapons and armors.....I would love to go around in my classic pink armor and dark blue cloak......with a dark blue quarterstaff.

A good crafting system is also a nice thing. I don't know if it's really fluff but look at DAOC's crafting system and then at SWG..... the latter being fun and well made......the former being utter boring but o so useful crap.

Well written NCP dialog.....I may actually read the dialog if it's not real stupid

Any other bizarre crap I didn't mention

From the list you can tell I think it adds. The more things to do and to see and ways to look the better. With little fluff it leaves little to do but.....kill and level.

For me, yse fluff is needed, I played go and kill daoc for so long and only got little bits of the fluff that could be. Then played SWG for like two weeks........and while I was not impressed with the game even at just the end of beta there was a considerable ammount of fluff.



Runner-up #1 is Tigres_Trist:

I consider fluff something that's non-vital to the gameplay, but that makes the game more attention grabbing, that makes the world more convenient for players, or anything that just adds to the depth of the world around you.

I'd love to see things that let you customize the look of your character. Be it things that are decided at creation, like the size and look of your character, or things after creation, like dies and such. I'm very odd like that. I like to look cool. I like to be able to dye my armor how I like. I'd like to see items that you can add to armor or weapons. Like for example, if you're a shaman, you could get skull charms to hang off your staff or shoulder pads. They wouldn't have to add attributes, but it would be cool to have to give each player more control over how they look.

I don't feel it detracts from the game at all. Lots of people play these games to 'escape'. Making a world with lots of character (character is often a result of lots of fluff) helps the player become interested and pulled into it. For example, I've heard that in certain places, when you walk by a bush, you'll see a pair of glowing eyes appear in them, and if you go close to them, a monster will pop out! Now, is it necessary for the monster to be in the bush? No, it's not. But by presenting the monster as such adds to the depth and immersiveness of the game.

No, fluff isn't necessarry. It's called fluff for a reason. It's just extra stuff. But having all of these cool extra options WILL make your game more fun, and thus, more successful.



Runner-up #2 is grollican:

NPC DIALOGUE: What I would like to see is useful and intelligent dialogue from NPCs for quests. I have played a few games, and most of the time what they say sort of has something to do with whats going on but is mostly a waste of time and doesn't help with the quest and I end up looking it up on the online quest database like everyone else. I want to be able to use what they say as clues, not something that I will just come to ignore.

CLOTHING: I believe that WoW is already going to have guild tartans to go over armor and i like that.

SOUND F/X: Good music is nice, as is cool sound effects. although i usually have on teamspeak and my cd player on randomize, so game sounds and music aren't really that important to me. plus they add to lag.

INNS AND BARS: it would be fun the have bars and inns really be busy, especially in larger towns. have bands and make it sound like you are really in a bar. as there isnt fighting in places like these i wouldn't mind turning on my sound and music while i talk to npcs or whatever while inside.

RESTING: perhaps make it where the only way you can well rested is at an inn, instead of not logging that character for a certain amount of time. so you go there pay for a bed, then come out well rested and you can only do that say once every 20hrs. this way people can quest if they want to right when they log on instead of hunting. then they go to the inn, rest and hunt before they log and not loose the chance at the boost in xp for hunting. or they can go to the inn right when they log on and hunt for xp then. so they have more a choice of when they hunt.












Topic of the Week - Would you pay cash for items in game?
05-20-2004

Would you pay cash for items in game?

You can now buy accounts, in game money, items, etc through various sources. It seem the gaming industry is turning their eyes in that direction as a way to gain more funding. The game makers themselves may now start selling items directly in game.

From an E3 review in the LA Times:

At this week's Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles, publishers big and small buzzed about how the proliferation of game consoles and PCs with high-speed Internet connections opened up new opportunities for selling extras such as additional levels and exotic digital weaponry. 

The idea of purchasing extra levels, special equipment, maybe even having a dungeon or a zone you have to pay to enter rather than simply earning these things in game would affect the gaming industry. The question is what kind of affect would it have?

What do you think of purchasing items in game for cash rather than playing for them?
How would this affect the game?
Would this make a difference to you what games you would play?
How might this affect the gaming industry in general?
Would you like to see this implemented, yes or no, and why? 

Read the thread and respond here!

This week's winner is Shara:

(1) What do you think of purchasing items in game for cash rather than playing for them?

It defeats the purpose of playing the game. It invalidates in-game achievement.

(2) How would this affect the game?

It would spawn jealousy and animosity. The old haves-havenots war.

(3) Would this make a difference to you what games you would play?

Possibly. If there were two games I wanted to play, and one game promoted this sort of thing while the other game did not, I'd more likely play the latter.

(4) How might this affect the gaming industry in general?

Could be a cash-cow. But then again, why play? Part of the purpose of playing these games is to achieve in an alternate world, not to use real-world assets to achieve in-game properties. Again, this defeats the purpose of the game. I can see it causing a real division in the player-base, and I can see some gaming companies designing their games to not allow this sort of thing just to provide an alternative for the many gamers who are going to be upset by this sort of mechanic.

(5) Would you like to see this implemented, yes or no, and why?

No. A game world is an alternate universe to me, a place to go to get away from the real-world, to be absorbed in and consumed by its atmosphere, uniqueness, and splendor. I want to experience those worlds, to achieve in them what I can. Real-world money diminishes the overall game.

It comes down to this: In Everquest, I coveted the Sword of Ssraeszha, a two-handed weapon for paladins and Shadowknights. I saw a paladin with it one time, and I knew, because the item is no-drop (WoW's version is called soulbound) what that player had to go through to get that item. I knew how much time, effort, and help they had to get to achieve that weapon. It was awesome to stand near someone who possessed that thing.

Real-world cash would have totally destroyed that feeling I had, being awestruck by that paladin's prize.

I live for that awestruck feeling. That is one major reason why I play.

Runner-up #1 is Evangiel:

Frankly, I think a lot of the outcry on this subject would come more from 1337 gamers who insist that the fact that they treat playing the game like it's a second job somehow makes them special. Being able to shell out a wad of cash to save you some time (time you could use in finding ways to make up for that expenditure) upsets these people to no end because they feel like it's "not fair" or somesuch nonsense. As if it were fair that having 40+ extra hours a week to spend leveling your character to extremity.

As for this being inevitable, I have to agree. I mean, the gamer generation is all grown up nowadays and its members have a heck of a lot more money than a gaggle of snot-nosed 1337 teenagers who work a handful of hours at McDonalds so they can afford their MMORPG subscriptions -- assuming their parents don't pay for it. Hence, chances are companies are going to pay more attention to those people with more buying power.

And to touch on the subject of money being time. It's also important to remember that currently, whether you play 20 hours a month or 200, the company running the game _still_ only makes $XX.XX or whatever their subscription fee is off you -- so a casual gamer willing to spend $100 extra a month would be monetarily worth the price of losing several other players, not to mention the fact that it would decrease server load.

Realistically though, while the number of players willing to shell out cash in order to buy items or even accounts is relatively high, it is not by any means the majority. Some people (myself included) enjoy starting small and building my way up over time. I do _not_ have the driving urge to prove myself superior to other players. And while my wife does buy items and even accounts frequently on AC, I find I rarely use any of them.

And despite all the item and account selling that's already going on, (surprise! surprise!) I still have fun playing the game and meeting new friends, enjoying the thrill of hunting/killing, going on clever quests, getting neat loot etc. This new and long-overdue idea does not revile or threaten me in the least. In fact, I encourage it.

PS: I'd frankly like to start seeing sales of things like extra bank space or character slots. Those would probably sell like hotcakes if you ask me. If any WoW devs happen to read this, can someone please implement this idea?

Runner-up #2 is Aridon:

Actually I am rather suprised that MMOG's haven't addressed this issue yet. After all the #1 goal for any company is to make money. Instead of allowing Ebay and players to profit off their game why not jump into the fray and start selling stuff?

Well here is my take on it. If a game company wants to allow customers to buy things directly from them without anyone having to actually do the work / play the game to get the item being sold then I personally don't think I'll play that game.

I guess I see it as two different things when someone actually plays the game, earns a Gazillion gold and decides to sell it on Ebay. If you have more money than time that may be your only option to purchase an item, twink out your character etc.. At least someone had to work for the item, they went through the motions.

When a game company decides to enter the fray an offer items, dungeons, in game cash etc for RL money I believe it not only cheapens the game, it also does damage to the economy. No one had to work for those items in game they were just created out of thin air by SOE or whoever made the game. No thanks.

One way to circumvent this would be to cut Ebay out of the action. Have GM's or a in game system or web based system for players to trade their items for cash. I see this as the lesser of the two evils and the game company can charge a nominal fee on the transaction amount (perhaps a percentage of the dollar value). Players would use the system over ebay if:

1. Trades were guaranteed. Especially account purchases.

2. The fee was nominal and either the same or at least competitive with Ebay.

3. If any tradeable items or accounts would be allowed to change hands. Again guaranteed for the seller and buyer.

Basically the game company would act as an Escrow agent changing the ownership of the ingame materials or accounts. Nothing more.

I would be in favor of that type of system. I don't mind the companies earning some extra cash and for players that want to purchase things in game their transactions would be guaranteed. No more fraud. Well at least less fraud.

Sell things that people didn't actually earn and I'd probably won't play. I guess it is just the principal of the whole thing.












Topic of the Week - What's Your Favorite Race?
05-05-2004

What's Your Favorite Race?

Human
Dwarf
Night Elf
Gnome
Tauren
Undead
Troll
Orc

Pick your favorite race and tell us why!

Read the thread and respond here!

At the time the discussion thread is over, the results for the poll are as follows:

Human - 16%
Dwarf - 14%
Night Elf - 10%
Gnome - 11%
Tauren - 11%
Undead - 13%
Troll - 11%
Orc - 11%

This week's winner is CaringHands:

I suppose a good case can be made for each race, and no doubt they will all have players that love them. I prefer humans. Why? Probably because they are the least offensive of the female models.
They dont have the height problems of gnomes, the facial hair of the night elfs (if WoW introduces waxing, I will rethink my stand), the over-eating issues of dwarven kind, the anorexia of the undead, (dare I get into the fact that its udderly imposible to find an outfit that looks good on a tauren?), trolls can use a dentist and a rhinoplasty, and who realy wants to look like the she-hulk wannabe of the orcs?

Thus I will stick with the well-groomed, well-shaped humans for now.

Runner-up #1 is Snaggle-Tooth:

Undead because they show the determination I look for in a race. They're down but they're not out, they smell bad but they dont care, their skin is falling apart so they wrap their clothes tighter.

After reading The Zombie Survival Guide by Max Brooks I have a newfound appreciation for zombies. I do understand that the undead are more than simple humans affected by Solanum, but acctual corpses raised through magic, still.

Plus I dislike my bottom jaw tremendously so I can't wait to see my character without one.

Runner-up #2 is Xuraz_Defiler:

I'm really basing this off previous Warcraft games, as I really don't have an educated context for comparison with WoW.

That said...

Humans

There are a lot of interesting races in the Warcraft universe, but none have been developed as masterfully as the Human race. They are average in their skills, not holding any great strengths, but they also hold no great weaakness. They have often been the central cause and solution to most conflicts, and they've been a key interest of the Demons since the very first WC game.

Orcs would obviously be a close second. Their history is also rich in loss and triumph.

To me, Warcraft will eternally be about the struggle of Orcs vs Humans, everything else is just ancillary.
*








Topic of the Week - PvP
04-28-2004

PvP

During the inital development stages of WoW, PvP was going to consist of about 10% of the game. This seems to be changing. For many gamers, PvP is the most enjoyable part of a MMORPG. Numerous problems have been seen in other MMORPGs with this feature however. Leaving town and being killed by a higher level player and having your corpse looted. Taking your group out into the frontier and being killed by four groups against your one.

How do you feel Blizzard should implement PvP?
What previous experiences have you had that affect your view of PvP systems in general?
Is PvP a major part of the game for you or do you place more of an emphasis on interaction with other players or PvE?
How do you feel about battle zones specifically for PvP?

Please feel free to openly discuss any ideas for implementing PvP or feelings you have on the subject in general. No flaming!

Read the thread and respond here!

This week's winner is Xuraz_Defiler:

PVP in Wow

Ok, most of us are MMORPG vets.
We've seen PvP that works, and PvP that fails.

Let's examine what works:

* PvP that is less random, but more controlled. You know exactly where to go if you want to get into a fight. If you don't want to fight, you stay away from those areas.

* PvP that rewards players, and even offers them a measure of fame. Not just amongst players on web forums, but within the game itself. Character advancement would also be a more direct example of this.

* PvP that allows for control of territory, and gives players a way to change what is otherwise a very static world.

Let's examine what does NOT work:

* Random gank fests that effectively shut down entire areas of the game... dungeon entrances for example.

* PvP that punishes the loser with loss of items and/or time.

* PvP without any real sense of purpose or ongoing goals, basically, PvP for the sake of PvP.

* PvP in the form of duels/arena combat. This could be a whole other topic, but there are huge issues with duel/arena limited fights.

So, what games have done it right? In my opinion, DAOC has come very, very, very close. It has all the right elements. DAOC rewards the winners without punishing the losers. In fact, it would be perfect, but that game still struggles with class balance issues that still sorta trivialize their PvP system.

EQ did it wrong. PvP was an afterthought. The game is so completely designed for PvE, that even on the PvP servers people just eventually gave up in the high level game and mostly played it the way all the other carebear servers played it. Depending on your server, you can lose items, money and even exp. Not exactly my idea of fun.

UO was right in the middle. Some very frustrating days early on with PvP, that eased as time went on, and now it is fairly controlled. Not real good or bad, but the loss of items is a harsh pentalty for death.

So what do we know about WoW's sytem? No details, but here's the basics that have been said-
* We know there will be battlefields
* We know that PvP will be very controlled
* We know there will be duels

Reports from beta are that someone in another faction, can kill all your city guards while you can only stand by and watch. Will that change?

Just from the limited morsels of information we have right now, it's a dissapointing showing for the PvP crowd. It's almost too early to discuss WoW PvP, because so little is known. Blizzard is hitning that things are in store, and speculation says we will likely see it in the next push.

Why is PvP so important?

In short, PvP allows players to participate in something a little more epic than the standard mob encounter.

Dont get me wrong, mob encounters are fun and IMPORTANT, but PvP gives you something to fight for. It gives a purpose to getting stronger and better equipped. In EQ, you get more powerful just for the sake of getting more powerful. PvP offers another sense of purpose. To defend your homeland, or attack your enemy's homeland, to be a brigand, or a noble militiaman protecting the frontiers... PvP has a strong place in Role-playing and character building.

It's my hope that Blizzard recognizes this, and doesn't go the path of patching PvP into an engine soley designed for PvE.

Runner-up #1 is Ottar2:

> How do you feel Blizzard should implement PvP?

A good balanced implementation of faction vs faction war.

> What previous experiences have you had the affect your view of
> PvP systems in general?

DAoC, highest realm rank character on Prydwen being r9l2 (ca 4,5m rp). Planetside (highest char being battlerank 20, relatively lowbie command-rank wise).

> Is PvP a major part of the game for you or do you place more of
> an emphasis on interaction with other players or PvE?

PvP -is- by necessity a major part of the game. No matter how long the grind, how numerous the quests, how vast explorable territory, people -will- cap their chars and then what? Folks who are worried about powergamers "trivializing" content base their stance on false assumption that it is at all realistic to implement new quality content faster than active playerbase can consume it. New quests, new items and/or a new zone every few months will not cut it. The endgame "content", things to do, sustainable fun, will mostly have to come from players themselves with the game providing mechanics and environment to do it.

As of this day, nothing better than faction based PvP as endgame is invented. It is by no means perfect, it has inherent problems to it and will cause major headache and frustrations to all parties involved. Faction, class, population balances, the fact that every time someone has fun, someone else has to die. Still, it's the best form of endgame currently in existance.

> How do you feel about battle zones specifically for PvP?

I feel doubtful. Too little info available to feel anything else. Is that basically similar to DAoC battleground model? If yes, then I feel very doubtful. Let me elaborate.

Battlegrounds in DAoC were fairly popular amongst a portion of population. Mainly for two reasons:

a) Levelling a new class to "battleground age" was relatively easy and later levels of grind did not get in the way of enjoyment much.

b) Majority of balance problems facing "real" RvR were notably absent in battleground warfare. With few exceptions, classes and realms at lvl 24 were better balanced than they were at lvl 50.

Were it easier to reach effectiveness in "real" RvR and were classes/realms better balanced, I doubt as many would have sstayed in battlegrounds

Most PvP implementations so far seem still be trying to fix what went wrong in UO. They implement mugging and then try to "control" it. What I feel WoW is trying to do is implement a "championship" style of PvP. Better but not good enough.

We already have good, working model of PvP. What DAoC has is simulation of war. Bad design, worse policy of nerf cycles, but the concept itself is brilliant, best in the market.

Psychologically, killing in (simulated) war is very different from stabbing a hapless noob in a dark alley. Yet more different from a duel or besting a fellow in a friendly tournament. A good implementation of war is what I hope for.

Ottar

Runner-up #2 is Gorp_Bjones:

• How do you feel Blizzard should implement PvP?

I would like to see a combination of open zones similar to DAOC and arena zones.

The open zones should allow any and all people to enter and form into groups. There should be persistent objectives to fight over that give specific benefits. For example a town that has vendors who sell weapons and armor for cheaper than normal or a mine that allows players to pick up better than average resources for crafting. There should be no player ranking system for these zones and no penalty for pvp death other than being dumped outside the zone if no rez is available.

The arena zones would be strictly for player versus player action. Zones for one on one fights where you can fight members of your own faction or the enemies and zones where you can fight 5 on 5 against enemy factions. These zones should have a player ranking system made available outside of the game similar to DAOC.

• What previous experiences have you had the affect your view of PvP systems in general?

I have played DAOC, Shadowbane, and Planetside.

DAOC I remember the first time the call to defend the relics went out. What a rush of excitement. After about the 60th time though it starts to lose it’s appeal. Having or not having the relics meant very little in the end. I like the big battles when they don’t crash the servers.

Shadowbane was the best pvp game I played except for the bugs and the way towns were set up. I loved the open pvp with guild backing. You could gank, but be prepared to suffer the consequences. I also liked the equipment loss factor. In DAOC people always went into combat with their best loot which gave them a tremendous advantage (as it should). In SB there was a chance you would lose that uber loot so more often than not people were fighting with the same level of equipment which balanced things out a bit.

Town ownership sucked. Basically only the top officials in the guild got a say in town building and the rest of us just pharmed gold (which is even worse than pharming for XP since I didn’t even get to keep the gold!) Towns should have been easier to set up by smaller guilds and not show on the map until they had reached a certain size.

Planetside was great for getting into instant battles, but there was no role playing and no real reason to battle. Yes, I am a PVP’er who loves to role play. It didn’t keep my interest for long.

• Is PvP a major part of the game for you or do you place more of an emphasis on interaction with other players or PvE?

For me PVP is 50% of the game, role playing 40% and pve 10%.

• How do you feel about battle zones specifically for PvP?

I don’t mind zones as long as there is a reason to go into the zones to fight. Some people want to fight for the prestige, some just like the thrill of the kill, and others such as myself prefer to fight for useful objectives in large scale battles that may take hours of maneuver and coordination for a few brief decisive battles.











Topic of the Week - Rest State
04-21-2004

Rest State

The concept of "resting" while used in a limited manner in other MMORPG's, such as sitting to regain endurance or mana faster in DAoC, seems to be taken to a new level in WoW.

"To broaden and balance some of the gameplay elements, we've incorporated a few new features. One of them is the Rest State modifier, which gives players a time-limited bonus to combat (PvE) experience. This frees up time for exploring other aspects of the game without penalty, such as tradeskilling and social activities, and helps players avoid level-grinding."

The above quote was taken from the WoW Beta Site (emphasis added).

Do you feel Blizzard is trying to force players to focus on something other than leveling?
Why would Blizzard try to draw the attention away from the leveling grind?
Will this enhance the game or the enjoyment of the game in anyway?
Does this change your feelings about the game in general?
Is this something that you would like to see changed before release?

Open discussion is encouraged and informed, and thought out replies are appreciated.

Read the thread and respond here!

This week's winner is Dead_Rabbit:

What's ironic about this entire debate is that a lot of the so-called hardcore players (or power gamers) are upset about this system because they feel they have been singled out to be "punished."

Well, as one of those so-called hardcore players (or powergamers), I don't feel "punished" at all. I feel that if the system is intended to slow down hardcore players, then it's clearly not doing what it is intended to do. Powergamers are lvling faster then ever from what I hear.

Secondly, if this system is supposed to passive-aggressively force veriety into my game experience for my own good, well, I'm not a big fan on that note either. I don't like artificial systems which attempt to curtail my play style one way or the other. Most of us get enough of that in the real world. For example, I would also be slightly rubbed the wrong way if the system discouraged questing and instead encouraged grinding. It's silly and in my opinion there is no need for it. Especially with the 8 hours per clip downtime.

It's all about the balance baby. But, not forced balance. Make both systems equally viable all of the time so everyone can pick their own dinner plate, however and whenever they like it.

Having said all of that, whether the "rest system" makes WoW's release or not, I'm really not loosing any sleep over it. If it goes gold, then what I will slightly loose in lvling freedom (or the perception of lvling freedom), I will gain in a nice 100% exp boost. Either way they slice it, it's a win win.









Topic of the Week - How's Your Equipment?
04-13-2004

How's Your Equipment?

You have equipment, armor, weapons, etc. Acquiring it, maintaining it, personalizing it has always been an issue.

How's the equipment system so far?
Are you pleased with the diversity of the armor selection?
Since they have exploding sheep do you think they should add exploding helmets for gag gifts?
Should you be able to wear holes in your armor?
What do you like/dislike about the whole equipment hassle?

Read the thread and respond here!

This week's winner is haudr_ymirsson:

Holes in armor would be great. Not only would it add to the sense of immersion by showing the results of mortal combat, it'd make the perfect catalyst for conversations (e.g. "Wow, what the hell happened to you?") while lounging at an Inn.










Topic of the Week - Death Penalty
04-04-2004

Death Penalty

Do you think their should be consequences for death?
Why?
What are some ways it's implemented?
How do you think Blizzard is doing so far?
Anything you would like to see added/changed?
At what point do penalties become too harsh?

There has been quite a bit of discussion regarding this topic already so be gentle with each other. Feel free to discuss any facet of it that piques your interest rather than just answering the questions.

Read the thread and respond here!

This week's winner is Inasnum:

Do you think their should be consequences for death?
Why?
-----------------
There should be some sort of consequences for death. I would hate for death to mean nothing. Half the feeling of accomplishment comes with having some sort of adversity imo.

How do you think Blizzard is doing so far?
-----------------
I think they have come up with a great idea, but I think that the XP hit should be increased because from what I read, its really no big loss if you choose to accept the XP hit instead of retrieve your corpse.

At what point do penalties become too harsh?
-----------------
When the XP loss is unrealistic (example: FFXI) or when a death causes you to lose a level, then I think it has crossed into the "too harsh" area.

Runner-up #1 is ChrisyTina:

- Do you think their should be consequences for death?

No, not really.

- Why?

While I have respect for the risk vs reward concept in a game like this, I also want for there to be as little dissatisfaction from my gaming experience as possible. The more and more I play MMOs, the more and more I don't understand why I *need* to suffer such penalties and restrictions where the result is nothing but lost time and ultimately being frustrated. It is just a game after all. When I'm exploring and I have no choice but to turn a blind corner I feel cheated when a mob I had no way of knowing was there is able to kill me in 2 seconds, and then I'm punished with the loss of my time, money, or items. Not everyone likes to buy tons of maps and read cheat guides in order to do well at quests and exploring... I don't see why I and those like me should get penalties that discourage playing the game without the help of every available known resource.

- How do you think Blizzard is doing so far?

I personally feel WoW's existing system is the best I have seen. When you die you still have the option of using a Spirit Healer and losing exp, or taking the time to walk back to where your body is and attempt to rez yourself. It's also easy to forget that sometimes we die in places where there would be no way of rezzing ourselves due to there being too much aggro in the area, so there'd be no choice but to use the Spirit Healer and lose some exp. Not every death will go without a penalty as Blizzard has designed it.

- Anything you would like to see added/changed?

At the current time, no. I'd stand for an increase in exp lost from visiting a Spirit Healer, but would never suggest it as something needed.

- At what point do penalties become too harsh?

The one thing I don't *ever* want to see is the loss of items when a character dies, and having to trudge back to loot the corpse. Any system were perma death could happen or losing levels would also be too way harsh imo.

Runner-up #2 is EvilOwnage:

-Do you think their should be consequences for death?

Yes, In MMORPGS there always needs to be a death penalty.

-Why?

You would have people running around dying because it didn't matter. Death penalties cause yu to be better at a game. You become more careful and strategic at what you do. You won't just run straight in to certain death. It needs to be just harsh enough to make you avoid death, and just light enough where it doesn't take away from the fun of the game.

-What are some ways it's implemented?

Well, dying and retrieving a corpse is always a hassel. It wastes a bit of your time etc. This is sometimes not harsh enough. A stat penalty would be a nice addition. It would lower all of your skills just a little bit until you made a little bit of experience to work it off. AC had a similar system to this. AC had item loss when you died. However they made it where you lost your most expensive item, so it made it not such a problem becaue you could carry death items. I don't think WoW needs item loss. The whole point to item loss is the penalty for not retrieving your corpse. You would loss the items on it, but WoW makes up for this by making you have an xp loss if you don't retrieve. WoW's current system is ok, but I think it would be better with a temporary stat penalty.

-How do you think Blizzard is doing so far?

Like I said above. Its decent but could be better. I think its missing some kind of stat penalty that could be worked off by killing a few monsters. Adds just a little bit more to you not wanting to die. Also, its lightenough to not get you frustated.

-Anything you would like to see added/changed?

I think the ghost system is very unique and I like the idea. I would like to see the stat penalty and I think its good to go. Only thing Id like added.

-At what point do penalties become too harsh?

Penalties are too harsh when you lose your hard earned items. AC covered this with death items, but there was always that rare drop. Also xp lose is too harsh to me. I can't stand to lose my hard earned xp. Everyone dies you can't avoid it. I like the way WoW has it implemented personally. Make xp loss a penalty for not retrieving your corpse. That right there is enough motivation for me to get every corpse.

I like WoWs system. Its pretty unique. Its just missing a lil something and it would be great. It couldstay the same and be fine.









Topic of the Week - Character Models
03-29-2004

Character Models

At this point there are only four races per faction.

Do you think that's enough?
Should Blizzard add more for variety at some point in the future?
For those of you have played beta or drooled on the shoulder of someone who's played beta is there enough selection in options, eyes, faces, body shape to keep them from looking the same?
Are there any races you would like to see added?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Tinea:

I would be against putting more typical fantasy races into the game at an expansion. I would not want to see a half-elf. Let Blizzard be more creative than that.

As for Blood Elves, they are a possibility for an expansion, but I do not understand why some people have been so rabid to get them into the game. If you are not a roleplayer, then Blood Elves will not make you a unique character as they will be just another elf with a different skin color.

I would like to see the different skill sets of each class be worthwile to spec in. One "uber" template is hard to avoid in an MMORPG, but if Blizzard can avoid that, it will make characters more unique. If many different feasible specializations exist, then it will be like there are many more classes in the game and there will be less of an urgency to add races to freshen up the game.

Also, I think an additional faction will be difficult to add down the road as the other two factions will have a large base of players already built. I'd expect to see races added to the current factions only. There are several options for races that can be added to WoW from the WC universe. However, it could be possible to build a story for a new race in WoW rather than bringing in existing races as playable. (Blizzard did that with Night Elves in WC3 -- they were new to the game but Blizzard did a good job backfilling the storyline so that in the WC universe the NE had existed for a long time).

As for character customization, the more the better. If time can be spent to make a character look more unique, I'm all for it. There can never be enough customization options. If we didn't care about feeling somewhat unique in the game, this might as well be a FPS.

Runner-up #1 is Noviere:

1. I think 4 races per faction is plenty. To be honest, I can't think of any other suitable races from the Warcraft series to add for players.

Some would argue that Pandaren would be a good choice, but I'd have to disagree. They are an easter egg, and having more than a few would seem out of place. Blizzard could add them as a bonus race that has to be unlocked somehow(perhaps by completing some high level quest?), but that would probably end up being a mistake due to spoiler sites and such.

Naga has been mentioned many times in the past as well, but I don't see it happening. As cool as they are, they would be a huge hassle to implement as they are only partially humanoid, they have multiple limbs, etc... Would they be able to quad-wield weapons? Could they wear two sets of arms, gloves, rings, etc...? They don't have legs or feet, so would those slots be greyed out? Adapting helmets to fit their heads(which have huge fins on them) would also be a pain. With all of these issues, I don't see how they could be balanced against the other races.

High/Blood Elves are a definate possibility. But High Elves are supposed to be nearly extinct, so how could they explain the sudden influx of new members of the race? I don't really know what happens to the Blood Elves at the end of TFT, so I can't really comment on them... But do they end up remaining allies with the Alliance?

Ogres, gnolls, furbolgs, etc... To me, these are monster races, and should probably stay that way.

2. I can definately appreciate how adding new races would increase variety, but I'm having difficulty thinking of approriate candidates(as I mentioned in #1). I don't want Blizzard to suddenly invent a new race that up until now was unknown just to spice things up... It dillutes the history of Warcraft, IMO.

I guess what I'm trying to say is this... Adding races just for the sake of variety seems wrong to me. It's like when your favorite TV show adds a new character for no apparent reason. Or when SOE added Iksar, Vah'shir and Frogloks to EQ :P

3. I haven't played the beta(or watched someone play it), but from screenshots I'd say there is a fair ammount of character customization. We'll never see something akin to what's planned for EQ2, but that's fine with me really. It would be nice if Blizzard added some more options each push for the various races... A hairstyle here, a new color choice there, a handful of new faces. But overall, I'd say there is a decent ammount of choice availible.

There are some great threads at Graffe's that show samples of each race which give a good idea of what to expect.

4. The only races I can think to add that would a.) fit into the existing world, and b.) not require huge ammounts of work from the art department are half-breeds. Specifically, half elves and half-orcs(for the Alliance and Horde respectively).

Half-elves would give fans of standard fantasy elves something to play with. They wouldn't be required to have huge ears, be 7+ feet tall, or have purple skin. I'd prefer if they were half-High/Blood elven, rather than Night elven though.

With half-orcs, it's a nice option for people who want to be part of the Horde but don't want to be as "monstrous" as the other choices.

A final option concerning half-breeds would be to forget half-elves and just go with half-orcs... But allow said player to choose between the Alliance or Horde when they create the character. The only problem with this might be an overpopulation of half-orcs.

Runner-up #2 is EvanderMT:

-I think there's enough variety for the start. 8 races is enough to spread out people considerably (so long as certain races aren't perceptively more powerful), but not so many as to be overwhelming.

-Should they? Yes. In fact, they HAVE to add variety to the game over time, but not necessarily via race choices.

-Not in beta, but posts seem to suggest that more options in customization is needed.

-What I'd like to see - The "Exiles"? faction - Illidan's group. A 3rd faction, to go against Alliance and Horde. Naga, as a race, would be workable. Yes, they'd probably have some severe restrictions on usable gear, but it would likely mean more Naga-only equipment, and perhaps a more hefty racial bonus. Blood Elves, those grumpy magic-addicts, would join them. The Draenei (a race on Draenor that the Orcs slaughtered most of) I think would be quite an interesting addition. Those three you can see teamed up in WC3:TFT, submitting to the orders of Illidan, under command of Kil'Jaeden. That only pits 3 races against 4 and 4, though, so as their 4th race...I'd like to see Kil'jaeden order... DEMONS to join them, Demon players! This would all be pretty cool, but it'd take a big expansion pack to add it.









Topic of the Week - Character Models
03-29-2004

Character Models

At this point there are only four races per faction.

Do you think that's enough?
Should Blizzard add more for variety at some point in the future?
For those of you have played beta or drooled on the shoulder of someone who's played beta is there enough selection in options, eyes, faces, body shape to keep them from looking the same?
Are there any races you would like to see added?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Tinea:

I would be against putting more typical fantasy races into the game at an expansion. I would not want to see a half-elf. Let Blizzard be more creative than that.

As for Blood Elves, they are a possibility for an expansion, but I do not understand why some people have been so rabid to get them into the game. If you are not a roleplayer, then Blood Elves will not make you a unique character as they will be just another elf with a different skin color.

I would like to see the different skill sets of each class be worthwile to spec in. One "uber" template is hard to avoid in an MMORPG, but if Blizzard can avoid that, it will make characters more unique. If many different feasible specializations exist, then it will be like there are many more classes in the game and there will be less of an urgency to add races to freshen up the game.

Also, I think an additional faction will be difficult to add down the road as the other two factions will have a large base of players already built. I'd expect to see races added to the current factions only. There are several options for races that can be added to WoW from the WC universe. However, it could be possible to build a story for a new race in WoW rather than bringing in existing races as playable. (Blizzard did that with Night Elves in WC3 -- they were new to the game but Blizzard did a good job backfilling the storyline so that in the WC universe the NE had existed for a long time).

As for character customization, the more the better. If time can be spent to make a character look more unique, I'm all for it. There can never be enough customization options. If we didn't care about feeling somewhat unique in the game, this might as well be a FPS.

Runner-up #1 is Noviere:

1. I think 4 races per faction is plenty. To be honest, I can't think of any other suitable races from the Warcraft series to add for players.

Some would argue that Pandaren would be a good choice, but I'd have to disagree. They are an easter egg, and having more than a few would seem out of place. Blizzard could add them as a bonus race that has to be unlocked somehow(perhaps by completing some high level quest?), but that would probably end up being a mistake due to spoiler sites and such.

Naga has been mentioned many times in the past as well, but I don't see it happening. As cool as they are, they would be a huge hassle to implement as they are only partially humanoid, they have multiple limbs, etc... Would they be able to quad-wield weapons? Could they wear two sets of arms, gloves, rings, etc...? They don't have legs or feet, so would those slots be greyed out? Adapting helmets to fit their heads(which have huge fins on them) would also be a pain. With all of these issues, I don't see how they could be balanced against the other races.

High/Blood Elves are a definate possibility. But High Elves are supposed to be nearly extinct, so how could they explain the sudden influx of new members of the race? I don't really know what happens to the Blood Elves at the end of TFT, so I can't really comment on them... But do they end up remaining allies with the Alliance?

Ogres, gnolls, furbolgs, etc... To me, these are monster races, and should probably stay that way.

2. I can definately appreciate how adding new races would increase variety, but I'm having difficulty thinking of approriate candidates(as I mentioned in #1). I don't want Blizzard to suddenly invent a new race that up until now was unknown just to spice things up... It dillutes the history of Warcraft, IMO.

I guess what I'm trying to say is this... Adding races just for the sake of variety seems wrong to me. It's like when your favorite TV show adds a new character for no apparent reason. Or when SOE added Iksar, Vah'shir and Frogloks to EQ :P

3. I haven't played the beta(or watched someone play it), but from screenshots I'd say there is a fair ammount of character customization. We'll never see something akin to what's planned for EQ2, but that's fine with me really. It would be nice if Blizzard added some more options each push for the various races... A hairstyle here, a new color choice there, a handful of new faces. But overall, I'd say there is a decent ammount of choice availible.

There are some great threads at Graffe's that show samples of each race which give a good idea of what to expect.

4. The only races I can think to add that would a.) fit into the existing world, and b.) not require huge ammounts of work from the art department are half-breeds. Specifically, half elves and half-orcs(for the Alliance and Horde respectively).

Half-elves would give fans of standard fantasy elves something to play with. They wouldn't be required to have huge ears, be 7+ feet tall, or have purple skin. I'd prefer if they were half-High/Blood elven, rather than Night elven though.

With half-orcs, it's a nice option for people who want to be part of the Horde but don't want to be as "monstrous" as the other choices.

A final option concerning half-breeds would be to forget half-elves and just go with half-orcs... But allow said player to choose between the Alliance or Horde when they create the character. The only problem with this might be an overpopulation of half-orcs.

Runner-up #2 is EvanderMT:

-I think there's enough variety for the start. 8 races is enough to spread out people considerably (so long as certain races aren't perceptively more powerful), but not so many as to be overwhelming.

-Should they? Yes. In fact, they HAVE to add variety to the game over time, but not necessarily via race choices.

-Not in beta, but posts seem to suggest that more options in customization is needed.

-What I'd like to see - The "Exiles"? faction - Illidan's group. A 3rd faction, to go against Alliance and Horde. Naga, as a race, would be workable. Yes, they'd probably have some severe restrictions on usable gear, but it would likely mean more Naga-only equipment, and perhaps a more hefty racial bonus. Blood Elves, those grumpy magic-addicts, would join them. The Draenei (a race on Draenor that the Orcs slaughtered most of) I think would be quite an interesting addition. Those three you can see teamed up in WC3:TFT, submitting to the orders of Illidan, under command of Kil'Jaeden. That only pits 3 races against 4 and 4, though, so as their 4th race...I'd like to see Kil'jaeden order... DEMONS to join them, Demon players! This would all be pretty cool, but it'd take a big expansion pack to add it.










Topic of the Week - Interface
03-15-2004

Interface

The game of course isn't out yet but take a look at some screen shots of the interface:

Screenshot 1
Screenshot 2

What do you think?
Will it be easy to use?
What parts do you like?
Would you like to be able to rearrange the placement?
Would you like to see anything added or changed?
How do you feel it compares to other games?

Any comments on the interface in general would be great.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Sabriel:

1. The map is very nice; I like it a lot esp. with it nice and neat in the upper corner where I can "really" see it yet not obstructing my view... my husband will appreciate not having to hear me whine and groan about not knowing where I am. Which I am 99% certain I will still do regardless of having a map - might forget which key is set to toggle the map.

2. Seeing ugly D0rf faces if grouped with them is very in the suck. Can I at least have an option of putting paper sacks over 'er heads? They have pained me in EQ, and I still have not recovered and it is the same with male gnomes. Bearded d0rf ladies aren't so bad, but I can't promise I won't try to take my tweezers to 'er faces. Oh, I probably didn't read enough, but we can toggle the show of names right?

3. Please do not make me have buttons in a pretty row on the bottom of the screen. I can't live with organization, my life HAS to be complicated or I couldn't feel complete... I must have something to complain about later.

Tried to keep it "short & sweet" otherwise I would overwhelm you with my womanly charms of fault-finding, nit-picking, constant whining, and inability to stfu... at least that's how my husband would phrase it. *^_~*

-sae

Runner-up #1 is Balor_Gafdan:

What do you think?

Like everything I've seen so far from Blizzard for World of Warcraft it looks like they put a lot work into it. I'm most intrigued by the grouping window. It looks like it's seperated out with an easier to target option unlike DAOC uses today. I'd be further interested in if there is going to be alternate versions of the interface to use. It's definately easy to look at, but until you actually use it, who knows if it's going to be functional. I would hope everything can be mapped to the keyboard.

Will it be easy to use?

Hard to answer that question until beta starts. From what I can see, it's going to have a lot of functionality. It looks like healers will be able to target group members rather easily from the mini window for heals, enhancements, etc. If the quickbars can be mapped to the keyboard, I would say that this interface definately rivals that of DAOC and definately blows Shadowbane out of the water.

What parts do you like?

Have I mentioned I like the mini group window yet? I love how you have the character avatar next to each power/health bar in the window for easy reference. I play with the same people so I'm sure after a while I'll be able to just recognize the avatar for healing and other aspects of the game.

Would you like to be able to rearrange the placement?

Definately. I usually run with my quickbars across the top of the screen and my chat windows in the lower left hand corner at 1024x780. I've been running every MMORPG like this since I've been playing. I'm definately one of those types of people that gets into having their interface set up the same way. That's one of the reasons I didn't like Shadowbane. The quickbar didn't exist, you had to use buttons and the placement was less than desireable.

Would you like to see anything added or changed?

It's been mentioned that XML is available, and the community has MANY talented interface designers. I'm sure that the player base will ensure that many many varied options are available. One of the best things that ever happened for MMORPG interface design was the ability to modify it via XML.

How do you feel it compares to other games?

Well, it destroy's Shadowbane, Anarchy Online, and Rubies of Eventide. I would say that it's if not on par with DAOC, at least it's equal and with community involvement, it might even surpass it.

Runner-up #2 is Bobque:

INTERFACE

Overall
Hey Pally, long time no response... so here we go. What do I think? Overall. It's nice. How nice? Well it encompases several different things that other games had, but collectively did not possess. The main icons (Inventory, Options, Character, Chat, etc etc) are collectively organized in one section of the interface. The interface is based more along the bottom, which is easily viewable, but not obtrusive. I'm sure that positioning could change if one was so inclined, but not imperative to do so. I'ms ure we'll even have skins for our interfaces, and be able to customize them many different ways. If Blizzard leaves the door open to do that, we will step through and branch out to a world of customizeable possibilities. It's even, organized and easily readable. There are the tabs for 10 items, but it would appear they give a 12 item/skill option in this one. Leaving open hotkeys for not just items but skills and probably specials. Maybe even emotes as well.

Chat
Chat is organized evenly. Several tabs for many different channels open at once. These can be changed for length and size. Color coded and how transparent you want it or not. This opens up many possibilities for group chat, all chat, local areas, trade forums, and in our cases, even VN WOW chat... ingame. I could have a conversation with all my favorite WoW Community members right in our own channel, away from others who play WoW from the pssshhh.... B.net forums.

Group Icons
Since grouping is an intricate part of most MMO's... We can see that the interface should be just as intricate. Not just as interesting, but easy to udnerstand and work with. Again... working with a non-obtrusive nature is somehting that is important. We don't need giant icons of our fellows taking up the screen. The icons should and are hopefully resizeable... but they are conveniently placed and easily identifiable. Meanwhile your HP and stats are in the top left corner. This is interesting because I think overall, it keeps your eyes all over the screen, not locked in one place. The organized tabs at the bottom, the chat on the left, group members on the left, your HP and characters at the top left and compass on the top right... on the right... the heavy combat action.

Changes/Additions/PLacement
I feel it's important to have the option to move everything around. I wouldn't doubt that, I think I might have stated that already as well. Complete customization is an option, being able to move chat boxes, bars and everything to your hearts desire, around the screen to suit your needs.
Changes and additions... Well, this is a tough one because I have to think outside the box. I would say I hope the option to have HP and WILL numbers on the bar as well. Not only seeing that my bar is roughly 5/8 full after a battle, but that I have 100 out of 160 HP is also encouraging. The chat looks like it may be a bit difficult at times. If many people are speaking at once, the little sections of chat would fly by quickly, and you would have to greatly increase the chat space you use. But then again, if you're not in combat, that is not something to worry too heavily on. I think it would be fairly interesting to be able to code every part of the interface to specific keys. And then hide all the menus. With enough coordination and practice, someone could have nothing on the screen and be totally apt at knowing what he/she is doing.

Comparability
How does it compare? Well... I don't have an extremely wide knowledge of many other MMO's... since I have not played that many. But it does beat AC 1 style. That was not customizable beyond colors and skins. Other changed have been made, but only after years of hard work by other players and admins. Ac 2 and SWG had newer designed chat interfaces, and great ideas about keeping them active... but I think that fell more to reliablity. CHat was often down in both games, and that does not fall to a UI discussion. But they were on the right track. Being able to change chat fonts, backrounds, and move the boxes where you pleased. Made for easier access. One thing I disliked a lot was chat that appears over someones head. That along with names made it difficult to see where you were going in a crowd occasionally. My hope is that this will be an ON/OFF option ingame. Judging from SS 2, names bunched together like that could cause a problem. But if tooltip delay is set to a very small number there will be no problem in moving the cursor around to find "Joe The Gnome" in a sea of other traders.

All in all... very likeable. How easy it will be to get around and customize will be important to me, but not high on my "to do" list until later. As long as it is more then convenient to get from SWord A to Hammer B and drink that potion in time, I am more then satisfied.











Topic of the Week - Do Female Dwarves Have Beards?
03-08-2004

Do Female Dwarves Have Beards?

Should Blizzard give female dwarves the ability to shave?
Should you be able to personalize your beard?
Will female dwarves be able to have braids in their hair?
Is it politically incorrect for a female dwarf to have a beard if a male doesn't have one?
Will having a beard affect combat? Example: can you trip over your beard while attacking?
Will having a beard give a dwarven female advantages over other in game females such as being able to resist the weather?

So the real question for you to decide is how fair it is for female dwarves to have beards if the other females aren't so lucky.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Chullainn:

- "Should Blizzard give female dwarves the ability to shave?"

Yes. And not only that but all races should be able to learn the "dwarf shaving" skill. The beard hair could be used as a resource for weaving clothes, ropes or toupees for bald orcs.

- "Should you be able to personalize your beard?"

Definitely. Blizzard should include a quest to find the +6 Hair rollers of the Perm.

- "Will female dwarves be able to have braids in their hair?"

Braids, dreadlocks. It should all be there for the female dwarf who wants to go for the Rob Zombie look.

-"Is it politically incorrect for a female dwarf to have a beard if a male doesn't have one?"

Not after the femdwarvist protests in the 1960's.

-"Will having a beard affect combat, example: can you trip over your beard while attacking?"

Only if the beard isn't tucked into a belt or tied back behind the head. However beards can also be used as places to hide weapons such as knives, daggers or small catapults.

-"Will having a beard give a dwarven female advantages over other in game females such as being able to resist the weather? "

Actually the beard will be a disadvantage over other non-bearded females. This is due to the fact that the beard will obscure the ample cleavage that other females display in spades (if the screenshots are anything to go by). So while other females can use the special "cleavage mesmerize" attack, the dwarf has to resort to the traditional "huge hammer to the back of the head" attack

Runner-up #1 is Cao_Ren:

Of course female dwarves have beards!

Let me introduce myself. *Ahem*
I am the reknowned dwarven ecologist, Cao Ren. Many years have I spent among the soot and ashes of the forges of the little people. Long have I spent in the dank and dark halls that grace the underground dwarven kingdoms. I must warn! Dwarven ecology is a serious business! Do not attempt it out of sheer whim, as dwarves can be a tempermental lot!

So, people wonder if female dwarves have beards... I wondered the same thing once. I recall when I first became a dwarven ecologist. I was in the great city of Ironforge in Dun Morogh. I was newly appointed from Stormwind as the new ecologist and assistant to the Stormwind ambassador.

Figuring that I should get to know my environment, I decided that the tavern would be a good place to start in learning more about the culture. Whew! Dwarven spirits really are strong! I started chatting with this rather young looking dwarf next to me. The dwarf buys me a few drinks and I tell a tale or two about my past, and listen to a few as well. Wondering why I don't see any females, I make a snide remark about how ugly dwarven women must be and insinuate that the male dwarves must keep them locked up so that nobody can see them!

The dwarf had a curious look at that moment. I then realized my most painful error as a female fist from this 'rather young looking' dwarf smashed into my face.

I woke up a little later to laughter as another dwarf helped me to my feet.

"Ye found yer female, laddie!" He said while laughing, spraying me with spittle and mead with his roar.

Indeed, I was off to a great start. Not only do female dwarves have beards, but they have a solid left hook as well! That black eye graced my face for a few weeks. My pride suffered a bit longer though, as I had to put up with snickering dwarves everywhere I went...

But would a female dwarf shave you ask? I suppose they could, but I know not why. You see, in my years examining dwarven ecology, I have come to the following conclusion: dwarven female beard length is akin to human female breast size! That's right, nothing turns on a dwarf quite like the sight of a female's beard (except maybe a female dwarf working the forge, but that is more concerned with dwarven romance and mating rituals, which I will not go into here).

Despite this revelation, I have noticed a growing number of younger dwarf women DO shave! I can only assume that this is simply some rebellious act or phase that they will grow out of. That is what some of the older dwarves say at least...

I have heard some people ask if it is politically correct for a female to have a beard if a male does not have one. Honestly, this is something I have never thought of, as I have never seen a dwaven male without a beard. Nonetheless, it is my duty to find the answers to these questions. At a banquet not long ago, I had the opportunity to ask King Magni Bronzebeard himself this very question.

He said, "A male dwarf without a beard? You know what that is called? A GNOME! BWAHAHAHA!"

"So dwarves are really just gnomes with beards?" I mused.

...I woke up a few minutes later with a rather swollen jaw. Luckily, the ambassador is quite adapt at smoothing ruffled feathers, and a keg of ale later, all was forgotten (except for my stinging jaw... an altogether poignant reminder).

Now beard personalization is a rather large subject... many have written huge tomes about it, actually. I have seen them braided in many ways... intertwined with the moustache, divided and looped behind the ears, etc... Even the color means something. For example, a long grey beard is a symbol of great wisdom.

As far as tripping over their beards, that never happens. When a dwarf has a beard style that is quite long, it is usually tucked into the belt, if not divided and pulled back behind the head and braided into the hair. This is especially true in battle. Great care is taken to make sure that the beard does not come loose in the middle of a fight. Sometimes they even use beard blousing straps... kind of like beard suspenders!

I have heard stories though, about other ways in which a dwarf's beard has affected combat. For example, if an opponent somehow chops off the dwarf's beard, the dwarf will fall into an insane rage, stopping at nothing until the opponent is dead! If a dwarf dies in this state, it is rumored that the dwarf will even come back from the dead to seek revenge!

Well that is all for now. I am supposed to go assist the dwarven priests while they brew some holy water and I would like to examine the finer points of the fermentation process.

I leave you with this final note: never assume the dwarf you are talking to is a male!

Runner-up #2 is mtraun:

* Should Blizzard give female dwarves the ability to shave?
NO ONE TOUCHES THE BEARD! (In the words of the immortal Flashheart from Black Adder) It gives ya something to HANG ONTO! WOOF!

* Should you be able to personalize your beard?
Of cource, where are you going to hide that spare roast chicken?!

* Will female dwarves be able to have braids in their hair?
Uh? Yeh!

* Is it politically incorrect for a female dwarf to have a beard if a male doesn't have one?
ALL Dwarves have beards. Any dwarf that DOESN'T have a beard is a GNOME!

* Will having a beard affect combat, example: can you trip over your beard while attacking?
Bah! Dwarves are so used to their beards, they can weild them like a third arm! Great for pouring a bear in the middle of a fight! WAYHAY!!!

* Will having a beard give a dwarven female advantages over other in game females such as being able to resist the weather?
We'll they will certaily attract the attention of the dwarven men!









Topic of the Week - Warrior vs Warrior
03-01-2004

Warrior vs Warrior

In WoW the same classes will be played by both factions, rather than having specific classes for each.

How do you feel this will affect the game?
Will it make it easier or harder to know your opponent?
Does it take away from the diversity of having a large number of different classes to play?

Share any thoughts in general about having the same classes for all factions.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is ringersol:

[How do you feel this will affect the game? ]

Positively. Realm-specific classes create imbalance in PvP combat by their very nature. Giving a unique 'flavor' to each side is a noble endeavor, but for the long-term health of the game it should be restricted to immersive factors and racial modifiers rather than the core mechanics of a class.

[Will it make it easier to know your opponent or harder?]

Undoubtedly easier. You learn from your realm-mates the advantages and disadvantages of the possible specs, and can formulate tactics in duels.

[Does it take away from the diversity of having a large number of different classes to play?]

Not at all -- if multiple specs are viable and each has their own tactics. Diversity comes from character choices that result in gameplay altering tactics, not adjusting a list of special abilities and combos.

Playing a pure melee class in DAoC was largely the same regardless of realm or main tank/dual wield selection (or minor difference in special abilities). Having six distinct 'classes' for this did not result in very much 'diversity', as all six essentially /played/ the same. Combining these into a single 'class' with multiple spec lines wouldn't have destroyed any diversity, yet it would have promoted balance. By definition.

Consider Chess, Soccer, or any other competitive game:

One side is never granted a capability the other does not have. Diversity is manifest in different pieces or positions having capabilities which fundamentally change the way they are utilized. Each side still has equal access to these capabilities.

Runner-up #1 is Nostruum:

The obvious advantage to having the same classes on both sides is that they are inherently balanced against themselves. The only two unique classes are paladin and shaman and if you actually look at them closely they share many of the same abilities, IE healing, with only a few cosmetic differences. Otherwise they are balanced against each other. This only leaves Blizzard to balance the races against each other. Which can be done fairly easily if you give each side a smart race, a strong race, an agile race, and an average race. As long as say a troll hunter is the same as a night elf hunter balance is struck. Assuming of course that each qualifies as the agile race for the two sides.

The difficulty will be in how to maintain this balance in expansions when adding new races and classes. The starting classes are pretty basic and make sense that they would appear on both sides. A warrior is a warrior is a warrior and will exist in any society. So would preists. Only the name of their gods would change. Blizzard will be faced with a choice of two directions for new classes in expansions. Either to continue to give the same classes to both sides or do as they did with the shaman and paladin and create two very similar classes with only slight differences to balance them against each other.

The classes that have similar abilities but only slight differences will actually pose the greatest threat to game balance in the future as the players of the paladin and shaman classes clamber for upgrades to their classes that don't make sense for the other. Blizzard will have to approach such improvements with weary eye since giving such upgrades one without giving a countering upgrade to the other could prove disasterous as suddenly one side gains a distinct advantage over the other.

Runner-up #2 is Ieetful:

The level of character diversity is completely independent of the number of classes actually in the game.

Take a look at Diablo1. It had a grand total of three different 'classes.' You would look at that, not having played the game, and say something like "that's a joke," as far as diversity is concerned. But, once you did play the game, you'd realize that there were many paths you could take within each broad class -- which, in fact, made it a very diverse game. You would be hard pressed to find another person of your class having the same skills as you, at any given point in the game (given that you weren't following some player-invented uber template).

Now, look at a game like EQ. I'm not attempting to compare the games directly, just the implementations of their class systems. In EQ, you had virtually no options inside your class. You more or less had to play a certain way, and 95%+ of the people you'd meet of the same class would be playing exactly the same. There were some small deviations from this, such as the spell specializations and such, but they were hardly deal-breakers when it came to the lack of character diversity. Of course, what EQ's system had over Diablo's was in its number of classes.

What's the big difference between these systems, in the end? Not much, really. Except, from an outsider's perspective, EQ's would probably be more appealing. I think the general idea is that WoW will implement much more of a Diablo system than EQ's. A Warrior won't be extremely limited in his choices of what skills to pick to be minutely effective. Instead, he'll have options like becoming defense-oriented, spending his talents in defensive stances/styles, becoming offense-oriented, spending them in damage bonus stances/styles, specials-oriented, focusing on techniques akin to 'whirlwind' and 'bladestorm' and such, and probably many more.

A system with many, many cookie-cutter classes looks better on paper, but I'd say the extremely diverse fewer class choices allows a lot more freedom, and is generally more fun to play.









Topic of the Week - NDA
02-23-2004

NDA

From the Official FAQ:

Can you tell us more about the beta? Will there be different phases? Will there be an open beta? Will it require an NDA?
World of Warcraft is currently in the alpha-testing stage. The beta test, which is scheduled to start sometime in early 2004, will initially be open to players in the U.S., Canada, and Korea. Participation will not require an NDA. Similarly to how we've conducted beta tests in the past, we will gradually open up the beta to more and more testers in order to gauge server stability and connectivity. While we don't know what the total number of beta testers will be yet, this will by far be our largest beta test ever.

How do you think the absence of an NDA will affect the game?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Waiting:

At first you'd think that not having an NDA means that the game is going to be great, and don't get me wrong, I think it probably will be. However, Blizzard has never had an NDA in any of their beta tests. It looks to me like their just following tradition. All I'm saying is don't count on the game being teh roq simply because there's no NDA.

As far as what kind of impact this will have on we the gamers... Well, I think it's great that we don't have an NDA. We'll all know what we're getting into before we buy and such an action does say something for Blizzards confidence in their product. Overall, I think the lack of an NDA is just fine and won't hurt anyone.... unless the game sucks of course, in which case Blizzard will be hurt plenty.

Now then, what impact would this have on the game itself... Well, I'm only slightly worried about a few things. First of all, with there being no NDA everyones going to have something to say about the game. Alot of it's probably going to be crappy suggestions or stupid ideas for un-workable game features. I just hope that Blizzard devs and staff working on WoW can keep their heads straight and focus on what they know can work and what can't. If they try and cater to everyone at once the game may end up being crap. Like they say, you can't please all of the people all of the time. With Blizzards track record, I'm allmost sure they won't fall into that trap.

Also, I'm sure that alot of people won't like where the game may be headed in the next {insert number here} months before release despite how good alot of us might think it is and will be quite vocal about their displeasure. People that're new at MMORPGs or don't know Blizzard all that well might be scared off by too much negative banter, something you wouldn't have to worry about if you had an NDA. Of course, the largest amount of people playing the game will likely be both Blizzard fans and will have played at least one MMORPG before, so it's not much to worry over. Whatever happens, I know I'll be playing the game as soon as it comes out.

Runner-up #1 is Viper583:

The no NDA policy is a double-edged sword the way I see it. In one view, it would be nice to have all the information about the game from beta players so the rest of us who were not fortunate enough to get into beta can get a better understanding of the game. Seeing movies and pics will also help ease our suffering with the constant flow of new information.

But on the other hand, I am afraid that some of the game might change for the worse if there will be too much influence from people who are not in beta but are basing their opinions on the information provided by the beta players. If a beta player says "Combat works in such and such a way", a person not in beta can say they don't like it and it should be change to so and so. But you have to play the game to really get an understanding of how it works. I just don't want the game changed based upon whining of people who are not in the beta.

Runner-up #2 is Asmiroth:

Perhaps the most important part of an NDA is to allow the company to fix issues and major exploits without the public knowing the game is buggy. I have personally been in a dozen or so betas and I KNOW that the first beta is usually barely playable. Not that they don't test it in alpha, but the real playerbase, the ones who didn't code the game, are going to try really stupid things and break it. That's part of the game. The problem occurs that the general public (read 400,000 players) will base their opinions on the beta information from the get-go.

On the flipside however, this shows such an amazing amount of faith in their product, that the beta players will be trying to break this game and they want people to know about it. There will such a hype for this game because of the fan sites and the amount of information available to the public.

If I were Blizzard, I would start the beta with an NDA for the first couple weeks. Just so you can get rid of the major stuff first, then on the second beta entries, lift the NDA. That way, you save a ton of money and time on the insane PR that is going to happen when people report that they can walk through walls.

Something I learned from my beta days. A good beta with good communication with the devs means a good game. Those of us who have tested games with little to no communication with the devs and no visible fixes to major issues know exactly what kind of game comes out... No NDA will ensure good communication because you will have people posting bugs on websites and people will stand up for a good if not great game.









Topic of the Week - Warcraft Games
02-09-2004

Warcraft Games

Are you a Warcraft fan or just looking for a new MMORPG?
How do you think the previous game will tie into this one?
Are there familiar things you're looking for in WoW?
Will you be looking for new things and changes?
Do you think that players who've played the previous Warcraft games will have an advantage?

Feel free to make any comparisons to the other Warcraft games.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Lucent90:

Are you a Warcraft fan or just looking for a new MMORPG?

I am a little of both really. I'm more of a Blizzard fan than just Warcraft. I have played more Starcraft than I have any other game, with DAoC coming in 2nd.

How do you think the previous game will tie into this one?

Blizzard's storywriters never cease to amaze on how well their storys are tied together. And the lose ends that are scattered. One thing is for certain.... as many ends that are tied. Many more ends will be revealed. If there is anything for certain WoW will thrive off possiblities and adventures. Much like in the Warcrafts and Starcraft's map editors these seeds planted for fans to make their own adventures, but this time instead of scenarios it will be in the form of roleplaying. Now not everyone will be here to absorb themselves into the lore, myself included, however I am sure I will be pulled into the immersive plot as a byproduct of playtime.

Are there familiar things you're looking for in WoW?

Having played DAoC, RvR has been one of the most challenging and fun parts about that game. If it wasn't for RvR I would have played DAoC only a couple months. RvR hooks you and doesn't let go for a long time. The rush of a good fight. Teamwork, working perfectly together and pulling off things as a group you never thought possible. An extension of yourself blasting your foe with finesse and precision. Seemingly chaos around you but knowing to yourself that you made a difference in the outcome of the battle. sure you don't win them all... the ones you do... make it that much better. It is my dearest hope that Blizzard captures that essence while preserving balance. Doing so will ensure keeping their early (and inevitable) playerbase that embraces the newness of WoW for years to come.

Will you be looking for new things and changes?

Blizzard has always pioneered in new ideas and implementation. Blizzard has always had a way with taking what works and leaving out what doesn't. Now that may not be exactly a new idea but putting it all together and focusing on funfactor would be a refreshing "new" change of pace in a world of MMORPG clones. Gamers play to be entertained not occupied. Or worse yet... left to entertain each other.

Do you think that players who've played the previous Warcraft games will have an advantage?

I would say so yes. But not exactly the way most would think. I feel people that have played the previous titles know Blizzard makes great games. Their past experiences will make up the heart of the community. If you have played computer games long enough there is a good chance at least one of Blizzard's games has already touched you hooking you and left you craving for more. On the other hand true to its past, Warcraft games even if you haven't played its previous title... I'm sure it will be a game that will be a great place to start for any gaming noob.

Runner-up #1 is Makui:

Are you a Warcraft fan or just looking for a new MMORPG?
Both really. I'm a huge fan of MMORPGs, and I anticipate WoW to be excellent. I've actually never played a Warcraft game, but my boyfriend has (while I watch over his shoulder, heh) and the characters and storyline are very intriguing. The main reason I haven't played a Warcraft game is because RTS games have never been my thing. I'm so glad Warcraft is becoming a MMORPG so I can actually play the story that has interested me in a game genre that I like! Seems the best of both worlds to me.

How do you think the previous game will tie into this one?
As stated above, I've never actually played a Warcraft game, but I hope the story will tie in nicely. In quests and in the overall concept I hope to find familiar characters and themes from the previous games.

Are there familiar things you're looking for in WoW?
I love the loot system in DAoC (albeit its randomness), as opposed to Diablo II where you got whatever you could grab before another person. I'd like to see a similar loot system, or atleast one completely different from D2's. PvP is a big thing for me in games, I honestly looove to kill people online. I really hope the PvP in WoW will exceed any we've seen before, knowing Blizzard it's quite possible it will.

Will you be looking for new things and changes?
Mmm...in certain aspects I will be, such as a class balance and faction balance (yet to see an amazing balance, I really hope Blizzard gets it down). But I know what I like and I hope certain elements I favor in MMORPGs are present in WoW. Then again, change is nice and refreshing. Mmm...difficult question!

Do you think that players who've played the previous Warcraft games will have an advantage?
Not really. In knowledge of the storylines and history of characers, of course they will. But in actual terms of game play, I don't really see how. If anyone would have an advantage I think it would be MMORPG veterans who understand the dynamics of an MMORPG. I guess we'll ultimately know when WoW's released though.

Thanks for reading.

Runner-up #2 is aggman:

Are you a Warcraft fan or just looking for a new MMORPG?

Both, I am a huge Blizzard fanboy in every way possible, I feel they can do no wrong. Adding to that is my newfound love (2years) of mmorpg’s and I really feel that playing an online game really adds to the playing experience in ways that I would never imagine possible.

How do you think the previous game will tie into this one?

I hope they keep the lore in the same vein at least. It is neat to see not just how your character interacts with the world but also why they do. I like knowing the background to this viscous war we are going to embark in.

Are there familiar things you're looking for in WoW?

The balanced game play! So far in all the blizzard games I have played they have been extremely balanced. This is what I am banking on for them to focus on above all else and is the most important for me.

Will you be looking for new things and changes?

Yes and no on this one. I already know what I like to do and play in the games I choose. But I am also looking to try out new and exciting things. One of these will be the interactive questing system I am really looking forward to.

Do you think that players who've played the previous Warcraft games will have an advantage?

Only in the lore behind the scenes and that will only help if they are a rollplayer. Other that that they will gain no advantage that can’t be learned through the players guide that will come with the game.







Topic of the Week - Will WoW Be A Cookie Cutter Game?
02-16-2004

Will WoW Be A Cookie Cutter Game?

There's a lot of discussion that WoW will revolutionize MMORPGs. Is that possible? With so many MMORPGs out, what aspects of WoW might be considered cookie cutter, if any?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is AtcMickey:

Well, probably not. But atm, all we have to go on is the "hype" surrounding the game, most of which has been generated by us. Blizard has done a wonderful job of giving us screenshots and information tidbits over the last few months in particular.

Now, if I had to select a single fact to base an answer to this question on, it would have to be the fact that they have the GUTS to Beta test a game with no NDA. I have beta tested games as far back as Ultima Online and as recent as Star Wars Galaxies. Now let me tell you, when I did beta for UO, THAT was a MAJOR NDA. The genre was so new, they were really really afraid of releasing too much info to fast for fear of ideas being stolen. SWG on the other hand, did not wish to release information because the game had serious flaws early on that continue to this day. That was lame IMHO.

Then WoW comes along, and whammo, not only have they attained cult-like followers on the boards months before beta and retail, they have up the ante on all other MMORPG's to follow by letting us TALK. For that very reason alone, the game must be extremely unique and extremely appealing since they don't fear what testers have to say, rather they RELISH in it.

My .02.

AtcMickey

Runner-up #1 is Vindicouth:

Nothing WoW is doing is revolutionary in my opinion. It has all been done before in some way.

But the folks at Blizzard have played all the previous MMORPG's, taken the good, removed the bad, made things alot more fun.

They're going to make leveling fun, crafting fun and not agonizing, they're taking the goods of racial traits, the goods of instanced PvP, PvP in general. The ideas blizzard is putting together are great and I really do believe blizzard can put together a game where power gamers and casual players can play together without much of a controversy.

A casual player can come on and do a few quests and get some armor and exp and feel like they accomplished something.

Runner-up #2 is Evilownage:

I definately think this game will revolutionize the MMO world. The way I see it, all these games that have come out all have been rushed. This you with a flawed product. From what I've seen, read, and the track record of blizzard all tells me that they are takng their time.

I believe that they won't release it til it is a finished product. Just look at AO and AC2 and how rushed they were. I think the companies will see how well WoW does and how they took their time.

I think this will cause other developers to do the same. This would result in more MMOs being balanced and having more content.

If AC2 was never rushed, I would still be playing it today. I just can't imagine how WoW will do. They are taking their time. It amazes me that in an article I read the game ran so smoothly for 10 hours at a convention in alpha.







Topic of the Week - Your Computer
02-02-2004

Your Computer

System reqirements are listed on the beta sign up.

Did your computer meet those?
Are you going to have to upgrade?
Do you plan on upgrading anyway?
Have you been planning on getting a whole new system and is WoW just a good excuse for that?

Share anything about your computer. You can even tell us what its name is and why you bought it.

Read the thread and respond here!

This week's winner is menai:

When I signed up for beta I loved my computer. It wasn't the best computer in the world but it was mine!
The system specs were better than the requirements for WOW.

Suddenly, my motherboard became a sacraficial lamb for my fiancee's discless tower of processing power project. I am now left with a 2nd rate mother board.

After realizing that he violated my computer in such a disgusting manner and in effort to seek reparition for his transgressions the parts for my new computer are in the mail:
Nvidia3 chipset
64 bit proc
1 gig of ram
And a cool new case with lots of blue LEDs.

So, new computer for WOW? Not specifically, but just in time!

Runner-up #1 is g0lliw0g:

Man, I used my C64 with an actual TV rofl. The funny thing is that Genisis controller (or was it original Sega?) ports were the same as the game ports on the C64. While it's true that the C64 was a great machine, I donated mine to the local museam for safe keeping, apparently there are people who study these archaic pieces of technology to learn what life was like way back before MMO games and high speed internet connections.

That being said, I have a few computers... Yes they all serve a very specific function, there's a reason that two people living in an apartment require 4 different computers! I swear there is!

We have the gaming machine, primarily used for playing any high end games. Has virtually nothing on it other the OS and drivers. Not used for surfing, kept remarkably clean for peak performance. This is a P4 2.8ghz w/ 800mhz fsb and HT. Currently has 1gig of ram (pc 3200). Right now I have an old FX 5200 in it for a video card. This was by design as I intend to get the latest video card when the next generation is released later this year.

We have mr server... aka old faithful. One of the first computers I actually bought while I was in university. P3 500 640mb ram. This is mainly used for web hosting and shared files, has a 80 gig 7200rpm HD and a 120gig HD. Running FreeBSD for an OS. I've had this machine for 5 years now and have never had anything go wrong with it, been the most reliable computer I've ever heard of. Except it needs a new battery because the time keeps getting screwed up, hehe. I use this for surfing the web, doing whatever on, has lots of junk software on it.

The old laptop, an old Toshiba laptop. Mainly used by me, running Mandrake. P2 233 64mb/ram. I tend to use this for programming, writing, surfing, anything that doesn't require too much speed to do. Wireless connection is good for laying in bed before going to sleep.

Wife's computer... A Dell Inspirion 8600, Pentium M 1.5 with 512mb/ram... Ati mobility Radeon 9800 pro 128mb/ram. Running XP. She uses this for whatever, has lots of junk on it. This computer and the gaming computer will be the only ones that'll see WoW. I imagine WoW will run fine on this, it might see a ram upgrade in it's future, but I think a format would be closer to the truth and probabaly help more.

Runner-up #2 is Koneg:

Did your computer meet those? Yes
Are you going to have to upgrade? No
Do you plan on upgrading anyway? No
Have you been planning on getting a whole new system and is WoW just a good excuse for that? No

Woot! Chance to show off La Machine: (Scratch built - twice because I didn't get the Xaser case until last month)

AMD Athlon XP (Barton) 3200
ASUS A7N8X 2.0 Deluxe Mainboard (Using nForce2 onboard audio)
1Gb (2x512) Corsair TwinX Ultra Low Latency PC3200 400Mhz DDR (Matched Pair)
Nvidia GeForce FX 5900 Ultra 256MB
Twin 36Gb Western Digital SATA 10k RPM HDs (RAID 0)
(edit)
Memorex 8x Dual Format DVD+/- RW CD-RW (8x/4x/4x/12x/40x/24x/40x)

Vantec 520W "Stealth" Power supply
(If it weren't for the lights I wouldn't know the comp was on )

All wrapped up in a Black w/Red Trim Thermaltake Xaser III V1000A Super Tower with blue neon lights. I've also added a secondary blue light along the bottom below the window, which is plugged in via USB and has an audio input. The light will pulse in tune to the base audio that's playing. (That gets annoying fast so I usually leave it off )

Normal usage is with a generic 21" monitor, but for real fun I lug the system into the living room and plug it into a 42" Widescreen Plasma HDTV monitor.

I'm all set for Half-Life 2 - so it's kinda overkill for WoW.









Topic of the Week - Mounts
01-26-2004

Mounts

When you reach level 40, you'll be able to ride mounts. You can acquire a mount through purchase or from questing. Mounts will provide a bonus to armor and speed. Through secondary skill specialization, you'll be able to ride the mounts of other races. It is possible that fighting will be allowed on top of mounts but that is unconfirmed. Here is the list of mounts:

Dwarves - Battle Rams
Gnomes - Battle Rams (Unconfirmed)
Humans - Warhorses
Night Elves - Tigers and other large cats
Orcs - Dire Wolves
Tauren - No mount - instead, the Tauren learn Plains Running, which allows them to move at the same speed as a mount.
Trolls - Dire Wolves (Unconfirmed)
Undead - Undead Horse, Warlocks will also be able to summon Nightmares later on in the game.

Flying Mounts

For a fee, you can ride a flying mount for fast, taxi-service style travel along set routes that your character has already traversed. While riding, you'll be able to look down and see the players or creeps in that area. There are four confirmed types of flying mounts:

Gryphons - ridden by Dwarves, Gnomes, and Humans
Wind Runners - ridden by Orcs, Tauren, and Trolls
Hippogryphs - ridden by Night Elves
Giant Bats - ridden by Undead

Mounts

No specific questions for this topic. Feel free to openly discuss any thought or ideas concerning mounts.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Bobaque:

That was the main thing on my mind that I briefly touched upon earlier. The Tauren has a plains running ability. But the details of this ability really aren't out yet, and we know with mounts there are only so many choices. You can fight on a mount, or you can't. You can have armor, decals, paints, even give your horse a gold tooth... or... none of these options are available. Upgradeable or not? Individual animals... or is every mount you summon a nameless slave to bear to the direction you choose?

The Tauren on the other hand, have no mounts. They have plains running. We do not know the effects of plains running. How fast it is compared to the mounts speed. If mounts are upgradeable, we have to take into consideration the upgradeing of the plains running ability to give defensive bonuses like the mounts. Also, since we do not know how fast they can go, how will this effect their fighting style while in plains running mode? At this point it's almost impossible to determine, and even when we get ingame, it will be a lengthy bit of time before we reach level 40 and have the opportunity to test this process.

I am all for decals, paints, armor, upgrades for mounts. Personalization is one of the key inviting factors in any MMO. In a vast world full of thousands of people, standing unique among the rest is a common goal among adventurers. Having tabards on your character, that match your horse is a great idea. As for the "docking" of a horse outside a dungeon, it has been confirmed that the mounts will vanish. They will not run away. I would imagine that when entering a dungeon, you have to take into consideration this fact, and it is probably against their wishes to have people riding a Battle Ram inside a small, poorly-lit cave.

I believe they also said armor was not going to be available to mounts also. Which is unfortunate, but maybe this also opens options for matching tabards with the owner and mount.

One thing I am sadly missing is the Battly Bunnies. I dunno where that thought originally came from, but I really wanted to see a huge white rabbit being ridden by some gnomes. I think that would be a great attraction to their class as well. Unique with Battle Rams, but also with Wabbits.

2 Coppers.



Runner-up #1 is WraithofFury:

I think battle from atop a mount would be cool if done right. There would have to be advantages and disadvantages though.
Advantages-
defencive bonus
to hit bonus
better chance to get out of a hairy situation
ability to get into the fight faster
lances at charge would do lotsa damage

Disadvantages-
polearms would do lotsa damage and dismount rider
mounts can be killed dismounting rider
falling damage if dismounted
lose a turn or combat getting up if dismounted
slower attacks than a foot fighter

If done like this forces in battles would want both mounted and unmounted troops in there armies, would be fun and fair. other implements could be
Horse=harder to dismount rider
cats/worgs=can attack with rider
battlerams=siege bonus
nightmare=reduced attacks with rider and slight dismount bonus
taurens....Hmmm gonna have to think about that one harder



Runner-up #2 is Waylander2:

I'd love to be able to customize your mount's performance, like breeding it for higher speed or better carrying capacity, or even giving players the opportunity to create a mount almost like they do a character, selecting the size, look, etc., and maybe even being able to put points into different categories to determine what their mount would be best at.

As for mounts in combat, I think what was said earlier is a valid point. When people riding horses got into a battle, they usually got slowed down by the crush of people like everyone else. Coding something like this would be very difficult for the devs, so it's easier just to not have mounts at all. And since the last Worldofwar.net article said that the PVP areas are instanced, they probably just won't let you take mounts into the PVP zones. And in duels you have that little circle you can't leave or you lose, so the whole mobility issue there is nullified.

While combat on mounts is an undeniably cool concept, the complications it brings with it make it very hard to implement and it's probably better for players if it was left out the game, or at least the initial retail version.









Topic of the Week - Dye. Dye! DYE!!
01-19-2004

Dye. Dye! DYE!!

Dye. Color. A way to personalize your toons.

What colors are your favorite?
Are you inclined to dye to match your guild emblem?
Do you tend to stick to one dye theme or alter it per toon?
Do you feel different dye jobs help you get into the role playing aspect of the game?
Are there any other ways that would be fun to personalize your toon?
Think dye should be more expensive for the pretty colors?
Are you going to run out and buy dye so you can look good at the first opportunity?

I can think of any number of questions to go with this topic. Feel free to discuss any angle of it.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Elpeanut:

Being color blind, I used to tend not to pay any attention to my character's color scheme. I'd just buy the cheapest dye I could find and dump it all over my toon. A while back, however, I was hunting with some friends and received a pair of boots. I tried them on, and they appeared to me to be a mild brown. I thought they looked pretty snazzy, so I left them that color.

Over the next several days I started getting random tells from strangers. "Nice boots." "Please dye your boots." "Your boots are giving me a headache." "Hawtmancyborzplz." I'm not really sure what that last one was all about, but I began to think maybe I had misjudged how cool my boots actually were.

So I called upon the advice of the local Color Expert, who doubles as my wife in her spare time. She explained to me that while I saw the boots as a subtle brown, the rest of the world saw them as a glaring neon green and that they clashed with every other item I was wearing. I decided it would be best for all concerned if I colored them something else the next time I happened accross a dye merchant.

I didn't get around to dying them for several more days, and the stream of random tells continued. After a wihle, I discovered something; I found I was having some great conversations with the some folks who'd sent me tells making fun of my boots. When I finally got around to visiting the dye merchant, I decided to match the rest of my duds with the boots.

Since then, I've found that uglifying my toons has been a pretty decent icebreaker for meeting new people. Really, when you put those loud obnoxious hues on your avatar, what you're actually doing is advertising yourself as a person who really doesn't take the game too seriously.

Now when I choose a color for my toon, I start off by thinking, "Would Herb Tarlek dig this color?" If I can answer yes to that question, then I slap it on. For me, the gaudier and more attrocious, the better. I love catching references to myself in gank threads like, "Didn't catch the guy's name, but I one-shot some goofball wearing a bright purple hat".



Runner-up #1 is dragon_bones:

I've always viewed using dyes as an extension of roleplaying my characters. I dye my armors in the manners and colors that I believe make the most sense for the character in question and the world he exists in. For example, one of my characters is a tank, but, as many of his race are, he is also very fond of nature. Therefore, his armor is dyed many different attention-grabbing colors, as warriors in history often have, but many of the colors are also very earthy tones that might be extracted from local plants in his world.

Obviously I like the idea of using armor dyes to personalize your character (which I think they do a very good job of), but I still think that the most popular colors should be expensive/hard to get. Black especially, since it is often the chosen color of powergamers with little desire to roleplay. Seeing everyone, including characters where it makes no sense at all, wearing all black all the time can often detract from the experience of a roleplayer, ruining the immersion of the game.



Runner-up #2 is Faltina2Heavenly:

Ahhh... good ol' dye.

I remember the glory days of Daoc... when anyone that could afford to dye their armor HAD to be uber. 30 Gold for black dye? Who could afford that when the whole server was level 45 or lower?!

Of course as currency became easier and easier to acquire more and more people were able to afford that "cool" look that the right dye job could bring. Lots would, at first, try to match their guild emblem with their color scheme. Others would always go for what they thought was most pleasing to the eye; usually the more expensive colors like Black and Crimson were used to that effect. Still, others would do their best to be truly unique; to not go one of the above ways at all but to pick the strangest and never used combo that they could.

As it turned out, a good, "unique" dye job went very far in seperating yourself from the throngs of players that had the same character model/graphic as you and similar guild colors. If you belonged to a guild that had Crimson and Black as its colors... and you dyed your armor Sky Blue and Yellow... you would stick out come guild meeting time. Same can be said for when you were merely sitting on the porta-pad waiting to be zerged. You would be noticed and remembered, even if its subconciously, as the "colorful" person amid the sea of black and red.

Of course this brings us to the following fact: Being able to be unique is one of the primary things people of any mmorpg look for. Giving the players a multitude of options to customize their character should be something thats on the game developers mind at all times. If everyone looks the same, has the same combat moves, and selects the same colors to wear... the world they play in would be nothing more then cookie-cutter in nature. A gaming world that doesn't stimulate the imagination isn't going to keep its players happy for long.

Case in point: Daoc. >:)

A game like WoW screams customization, imo. The fact that Blizzard has addressed this area a few different ways... with the quests and items themselves being unique... is very reassuring. If they deliver HALF of what they promise us when it comes to customization, dye just might be the icing on the veritable cake.



Special mention to glumglogg for his eloquent assesment. Thank you to Stealthy for his obvious use of bribery. Phyrexia was nice enough to assist with the technical replies. And tie dye and zerbra stripes and such patterns are indeed a grand idea!











Topic of the Week - Dungeons
01-12-2004

Dungeons

Blizzard will be approaching dungeons in a new way. There will be micro dungeons, small dungeons that occur randomly; world dungeons, the "Oh my gosh we're gonna die!" type; and dungeon instancing which allows only a group or guild inside their own "personal" dungeon.

How will this affect your view of dungeons?
How inclined will you be to find a dungeon?
How do you think instanced dungeons will affect player interactions?
Any thoughts in general about how Blizzard is doing their dungeons?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Rasa_Terrier:

From the Official Blizzard site regarding dungeons:

"Players will come across two types of dungeons while playing World of Warcraft: micro dungeons and world dungeons. There are more than a hundred micro dungeons throughout the world of Azeroth, ranging in relative size from small to quite big. Micro-dungeon locations will include tombs, haunted mines, ice caves, and sunken ships to name a few. The transition into and out of these dungeons will be seamless, and you'll be able to run into other players anywhere along the way."

How will this affect your view of dungeons?
Dungeons are often the best xp in a game. I welcome the news that there will be hundreds of micro dungeons. These will be ideal when soloing or duoing.

How inclined will you be to find a dungeon?
Very. While I enjoy hunting on the plains, dungeons are more exciting. Xping in dungeons is often more dangerous as one has to work their way down to tougher and tougher mobs.

How do you think instanced dungeons will affect player interactions?
Again from the official site: "All these locations have common areas where players can meet up and fight together. But, deeper in the dungeons are areas set up specifically for more private group (or sometimes guild) adventures. These areas, called "instanced zones," allow you and a group of friends to have a more personal experience, exploring, adventuring, or completing quests in your own private dungeon. You also have the ability to invite others into your instanced zone to join you. This relieves many of the camping, kill-stealing, and farming issues that MMORPGs sometimes face. The monsters in instanced zones are typically more powerful, so groups of players will have to work together to defeat them, but with greater dangers come greater rewards!"

I LOVE this idea! My guild is very good at high level pve. We thrive on pushing ourselves (often resulting in several group wipeouts) until we've beaten an encounter.

Any thoughts in general about how Blizzard is doing their dungeons?
I think Blizzard has some wonderful innovative ideas regarding dungeons. Having hundreds of micro dungeons will help discourage spawn camping. Having instanced areas in higher levels of dungeons will also help discourage spawn camping and kill stealing. I just hope the surface areas of WoW are as fun!



Runner-up #1 is --Arow--:

From the D&D; days, we have always had dungeons to explore. They are an important part of every fantasy world. In today's MMORPGs, they are more then just a place to explore, they are a place to meet people, a place to find items, and in some cases a place to just pick a spot and camp.

How will this affect your view of dungeons?
I think Blizzard has some great ideas. Blizzard's new instanced dungeons is a solution to the long standing problem of over camped dungeons, or having two different raids fighting over the boss at the lower levels. I think players of EverQuest, ToA of Dark Age of Camelot, and others will find this refreshing. Nothing is more depressing to fight and creep your way down to the lower level of the dungeon only to find that another group just killed the big guy already. If I can't find a raid to one of these dungeons, Blizzard still has world dungeons that may be easier to find a group with. Or the micro dungeons which sounds like an explorers dream, finding dungeons that no one has been inside before.

How inclined will you be to find a dungeon?
When I first start to explore, the first dungeon I find I will want to go inside. And once I find one I will probably want to find more. What I really look forward to with dungeons is the eye candy. I want to explore in side and go 'wow!' that looks sweet. Lava falls, stone bridges, old mines with mine cars, of course big dragons. The more cool stuff they have in dungeons, the more I will want to find them.

How do you think instanced dungeons will affect player interactions?
I think these dungeons will have a good impact on the player base. For starters, you will have less people arguing over a dungeon camp. That will be such a relief. If a player or a small group of friends want to be left alone in their dungeon, they can. For players that are looking to make new friend they can do so at the entrance of these instanced dungeons. These areas are public and designed for just that, building of a group to start your adventure! Even so, there are other dungeons that are 100% open to everyone. These dungeons are no different then what we are use to seeing in most other MMORPGs of today. For players that want to hunt, camp, and meet people like they do in these other games, they still can. Blizzard is truly letting the player pick how they want to play.

Any thoughts in general about how Blizzard is doing their dungeons?
I think Blizzard is trying to learn as much as they can from others and come up with new unique ideas. And I think its working. We will only be able to see if it really works once we get a large number of players all playing together. I'm sure there will be problems even Blizzard has not thought of. The key will be if they can identify the problems quickly and decide to do something about it.



Runner-up #2 is Olav:

I think the way Blizzard is approaching dungeons is fantastic. It's a breath of fresh air amidst all the camped, crowded, and fully mapped dungeons we've all experienced while playing various other MMORPG's.

I'm glad that they're keeping the static epic dungeon concept. That's just a common occurrence that I think many people would miss if they kept it out, including myself. It provides plenty of roleplaying opportunities for the group of adventurers that wish to delve deep into a dark, dank dungeon as well as catering to the more mundane approach of a constant spawn of entities to combat.

The random and instanced varieties are what truly intrigue me, though. I've always been a fan of random spawning of monsters in MMORPG's. Knowing exactly where a creature or group of creatures will spawn simply leads to camping and frustration often times. This goes with dungeons as well. But by introducing random dungeons it offers a solo player or a group of players the chance to entertain themselves in a unique encounter without the chance of outside interference. I can invision how this will create a feeling of truly searching out adventure instead of just traveling to your favorite camp of monsters to set up shop at.

I know that I personally will love the concept of the random dungeon. It's something I will definitely seek out and participate in.









Topic of the Week - Attention to Detail
01-05-2004

Attention to Detail

"Tiny rabbits scurry around with bloodthirsty wolves on their trail. This led to the humorous high point of the presentation, which was Bill Roper saying "I like little bunnies. I will make the wolf pay." Consequently the wolf is attacked and obliterated."
-- Gamer.no Preview

How do you think smaller details enhance the game?
Is the background environment important to you?
Do you feel that mob animation is an essential thing?
Any thoughts in general about the smaller details?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Hoob1:

The amount of extras a gaming company put into a game seperates it from the mass of new games coming out in the future. Blizzard has a very strong following and this is because of thier attention to details and trying thier best to put out a quality project.

I'm reading that characters blink, make facial expressions and that is just the tip of what we are about to see in WoW. I believe you can create interesting new animations or occurances that will make the game just a little more special to us. Perhaps random actions that are funny or just different from normal gameplay are things that give a gamer a little extra that we won't expect that will keep people interested.

Blizzard has gone in the way of a chartoonish look that is different from other companies that shows a refreshing and unique twist to this new generation of online gaming. Many companies are trying to make things look more "real" thus forcing people to buy the best video cards and computers so they can run these new engines. My thoughts are if a game has depth and fun gameplay, I would still play it if it looked like the original UO.

This engine that they are using shows an unlimited potential for extras and unique extra details that could be programmed in as additions each month that will be like getting a free present each month. Maybe a mob will run at you and begin talking with you on a extremely random (once every 2 months or so) and give you a special quest that will give you a "fun" item. This would be something like a unique emote or a skill that would not effect battles in any way to unballance things.

Good gaming companies know that for it to seperate itself from others they must generate things in the game that keep people interested and remain fun without becoming boring. It's just a silly game, it should always be fun or it becomes a job.



Runner-up #1 is Alvis_of_Galahad:

One of the big differences between the old pen and paper RPGs and MMORPGs is that the element of imagination is removed from players, replaced by the visuals on the screen, the ambient sounds and musinc from the speakers, and so on. That makes attention to detail incredibly important if one wants an immersive experience.

This has been limited by CPU and graphics card power, by network bandwidth, and by server capacity in the past. Hopefully, the work being done in WoW means that those barriers are falling. I love the idea of having ambient criters about, and the fact that WoW uses those critters in game (as the spell that allows a druid, I think, to shapechange into a neutral critter for scouting and such) is even better.

The final frontier of realism and immersiveness is probably weather. Right now, weather effects are primarily a visual obstacle: you can't see as far in rain or snow as on a clear day. Imagine the possibilities, though, of things like having a fire spell be less effective in the snow, or of a higher chance of fumbling in the rain, or of different travel speeds when the ground gets muddy.

The main caveat to all this is that game play still comes first. Nobody wants to spend 3 minutes donning rain gear when the showers come. Nobody wants those cute little bunnies to chew a hole in ther leather boots. Details are great when they add depth, realism, humor, or other positive elements to the game. If a detail truly adds nothing, then leave it out.



Runner-up #2 is -Olav-:

By adding depth to the environment around you, while you play any MMORPG, the smaller details heighten that sense of detachment you can obtain. I personally love the feel of a fully fleshed-out world. When you see the same rock, the same tree, and the same bush over and over you get the feeling you're in a Flintstones cartoon where the background scenery is recycled over and over. But when you see a vivid and unique environment around you, ripe with detail, you get the sense that you're truly immersed in a one-of-a-kind setting.

Yes, background environment is crucial to me when I'm playing a game of any sort. Whether it's ambient noises, mountains in the distance, the sun rising and setting, or weather patterns, this all adds to the big picture. That picture being a setting for me to play in which provides the most entertainment. Quite a bit of action involved in any MMORPG is running or traveling from one place to another. Being able to enjoy that run or horse trip is a big factor. Having a deeply detailed background environment, even if at times I don't notice it, adds to the overall feel of the game.

Although I think there are many other things that are much more important than simply mob animation, it's still a nice feature. I'd obviously prefer to fight a mob that walks around, paces, shifts its weight, and taunts me rather than a polygonal figure that just stands there as I attempt to kill it.

I've always thought that attention to small details in a game was a real sign of quality. It always expressed to me that the designers were proud of their product and actually cared whether or not the players enjoyed themselves.















Topic of the Week - Goals
12-29-2003

Goals

What goals do you have in WoW?
Are you playing for fun?
Are you playing as a follower and your goal is simply to play with your friends/guild?
Do you want to be recognized or make some tradeskill program that becomes well known?
Do you plan on being a crafter extraordinaire or the fastest leveling person on your server?

Maybe your goal is something different. We all have expectations and visions of what we will do and what will happen. What are yours?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Javaira:

WOW will be my 2nd MMORPG and the second computer game of any sort I intend to play with any sort of of seriousness. My other gaming exerience comes from versing my son at Tekken on the playstation. So I don't have alot gaming experience. My first MMORPG was great fun because it offered everything I wanted a game to offer (other people)and I had this huge learning curve which meant every week I was learning something new.

Although I have only ever played for fun, I found I had more fun if I was working towards a specific goal, with other people, that perhaps helped others atain something.

This time I hope to master the basics of the game sooner, so I can contribute more to this online world.

I want to help build a community, teach new people, provide sound advice, know my way around and have patience for those who don't. I want to give solid reliable support to leaders and even ocassionally lead myself.

I also want to be a founding member of a strong Australian (mostly) guild. As much as I love Americans they are mostly asleep when I play.

So, for me this time, I am making more of a commitment to WOW and the community of people I will be playing with. This may mean doing some of the less exciting stuff, but I am hoping that like in real life, I will get personal satisfaction in seeing my guild and community grow (In a really cool backdrop).

This is really a self serving goal. What I like most about these online games is the community, the better the community is the more fun I have.



Runner-up #1 is Horrorshow_WoW:

My goals in WoW are as follows.
#1. Fun.

#2. I plan on joining forces with a Dark Queen. Together we will create an army to slaughter the living! (back to earth) I only have a few friends who will join me in WoW... not really hardcore players... but WoW has so much room for possibility that it will be too early to tell exactly what courses I will take.

#3. Yeah, I'm an attention seeker, and a glory hound... but I'm no good with macro-tech or any of that nonsense... I do want to take it slow and learn how to play at a comfortable pace... however sometimes I get carried away and might end up leveling super-fast, lacking sleep and food. That has yet to be determined, on gameplay. In the end I'm more of a "Put your spines into it you rotting bohabs!" kind of guy. Meaning if there's some kind of server event or whatnot... I really want to be there, and have my name broadcasted server-wide... not that it'll ever happen, but I can dream, darn it.

#4. Make a lot of friends. (despite the rotting of our flesh)



Runner-up #2 is Nukkin_Futter:

What goals do you have in WoW?

Goals? well for me, MMORPG's have always been about the people to me, no matter what the game mechanics, I could be playing Whack a Mole for all I care, it's the people that I play with that make the game fun.

So I'd have to say my #1 goal would be to meet some crazy and interesting new people.

Having said that I still want a bad ass looking toon to call my own

Are you playing for fun?

Always, otherwise it wouldn't be playing, it would be a righteous waste of my time and money.

Are you playing as a follower and your goal is simply to play with your friends/guild?

Nope, I like to explore and try new things. I play some funny hours and often find myself with time to experiment. There's always some fun to be had when a MMORPG is new.

It's fun discovering new things, and even more fun sharing them with your friends. Kind of like when you find a doobie in your big brother's pack of lucky strikes.

Do you want to be recognized or make some tradeskill program that becomes well known?

If I was ever to become recognised it would only be as the local loudmouth. Let's call it a "character flaw"

Do you plan on being a crafter extraordinaire or the fastest leveling person on your server?

Nope, I level slower than a snail with a sprained ankle. To me it doesn't matter how long I take to level, just as long as I'm having a good time doing it.










Topic of the Week - What's So Good About Taurens?
12-22-2003

What's So Good About Taurens?

Please discuss.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Eloi:

1. Finally a choice for the gamer who doesn't want to play the rare smart Troll, but still wants a great hulking tough guy to control. Big, strong and wise, and possibly in tune with nature and the spirit world (if that's what you choose), that spells Tauren.

2. Being able to whomp someone with a tree (oh, sorry, "totem") is a very satisfying thing to look forward to after being stuck in traffic for an hour. Taurens get to do that all the time.

3. "Plains-running." Does that sound like "chase down that half-dead Paladin and pound him into beef jerky" to you? Sure does to me.

4. Nature prestige classes - not only can a Tauren punt a Peasant forty yards, he might be able to call lightning down to blast the wretched Peasants still hiding in their hut. Everybody likes lightning.

5. When it's time for the serious fighting, who goes through the gap first, the little weenie Orcs, or the gigantic hole-opening Tauren elite units? Right.

When you need enormous strength and killing power, you need Taurens. You don't have to be all that good at reading labels to know what's inside this package: brawn, aggression, and a hefty serving of Warrior. This is extremely appealing to the average gamer, whose physique does not approach that of a professional wrestler or enormous weightlifter - this is a fantasy experience.

Are we looking for a good fantasy, or what?



Runner-up #1 is -Krag-:

I wasn't aware that there was anything especially good about the Taurens. :D

I do think the Taurens are cool though, but as was said earlier, I hope Blizzard manages to balance the races well.

Though the Tauren looks to be a perfect fit for the prototypical offensive tank, I hope people don't get fixated on playing the optimal race/class combinations as it's much more interesting with variety instead of just about every warrior ending up being of one race (which could very well be Tauren for the Horde).

I do think that if Blizzard can follow through on their promised on making every combination viable it'll help reduce this problem. Also the more different playstyles that are available to a class the more races would be used. Tauren might for instance not make that good defensive warrior if they do give up some agility for strength.

The plains running ability sounds interesting and could provide the Tauren with an early travelling advantage.

I've been thinking of playing a Tauren (Shaman) since the races and classes were announced. Mainly because the Tauren is something new in the race department (no, I didn't want to touch Shadowbane with ten feet poker). I think it's great to get to try some new races instead of just playing tree-huggin' elves in every game 



Runner-up #2 is Dolphan86:

1) While not a totally new race for MMORPGs, it is a bit refreshing that there is a race other than Elf, Dwarf, and Human.

2) Plains running will be an excellent ability. See: Built-in mount. Other characters will not be able to ride mounts until level 40 or so I have heard, so if this ability is acquired before lv 40, then it is an automatic advantage.

3) The special ability, bull rush. Although I don't know the specifics of this ability, it sounds like a really unique ability to MMORPGs. It may end up just making your character stronger and faster for a duration, or it may be a gnarley animation attack where your character lowers his head and chargest your opponent. The thought of the latter really makes the Tauren sound cool.

4) Bread and butter tanks. (Str + Con) I played one in DAoC, and I had tons of fun. Why not one here?

5) It is not one of the "classic" WC races so to speak. This allows for basically an entirely open storyline. Other races such as the Orcs and Humans are restricted by their past storylines, while the Tauren storyline can easily go in any direction.











Topic of the Week - Trade Skills
12-15-2003

Trade Skills

Blizzard has only announced 17 trade skills so far.

Which ones will you try?
Are you a crafting addict from a previous game?
Do any look like fluff or do you think all will have some function?
How do you think WoW crafting will compare to other games?

Any trade skill or crafting thoughts that come to mind feel free to share!

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Zaronji:

I personally love crafting in games and plan on actively doing it in retail. AC 1's system didn't really interest me, but, after seeing AC 2's system, I started to love crafting. I'll probably make multiple characters in WoW so I can have access to all the different trade skills.

I don't understand why your question asks if the skills will be fluff or functional. To me, even pure fluff-skills, while not combat-functional, are still fuctional. There will hopefully be a lot more to the game than just getting better equipment and hunting, so even if a skill is there purely for non-combat purposes, it will still have a function.

It's probably still too early to even think about a comparison between WoW crafting and other games' crafting. However, I personally feel if blizzard keeps all their crafting promises, it will be the best system for me and a lot more people (there will never be a system that is the best to everyone).



Runner-up #1 is Rasa_Terrier:

Trade Skills

Which ones will you try?

I'm very interested in Herb Gathering. From what Blizzard released on the official site, it seems to be necessary for many of the crafts. I am hoping that we will be able to build skills in more than one craft. I would also be interested in fletching, as I'm planning on playing a hunter.

Are you a crafting addict from a previous game?

I was a master fletcher in EQ; Legendary Tailor in DAoC; Helped/finished leveling an armorcrafter to Legendary. I've also helped fund several crafters for my guild.

Do any look like fluff or do you think all will have some function?

From the information released by Blizzard so far, it seems all will be somewhat necessary. Of course, we don't know to what extent. I would not be surprised to find some tradeskills have more function than others.

How do you think WoW crafting will compare to other games?

Crafting in EQ was a click and drag fest. Crafting in DAoC was the equivilent to nickle slots - watch the green bar and hope for jack pot! Again, this can only be based on what Blizzard has released. It seems that they are focused on making crafting fun. What a concept!



Runner-up #2 is cca2842:

I plan on being a dwarf paladin, so Blacksmithing is gonna be big for me

I personally want to see how useful the enchanting skill is and if anyone can use it, or just casters.

Any skill that gives my weapons +stats is not fluff, hence i think fishing is fluff. I came to WoW to kill, explore and have a good time. Short of there being a bass masters of WoW competion every month or so, I don't think i will be paying fishing too much attention.

Cooking could be fluff, but that depends on how useful food is in the final release. I like the idea of being able to chow something down before a big battle, or chugging some ale and mead I just brewed up Being able to make a fire anyplace sounds like a fun skill by itself, and useful if cooking is a skill I choose. (Oh, and if brewing alchol isn't a part of cooking, then i won't even bother)











Topic of the Week - Guilds
12-08-2003

Guilds

This ties in with last week's topic. In discussing who might be left behind, a lot of people brought up their guilds.

Will you be moving your guild to WoW?
Will you be making or finding a new guild?
What do you want from a guild?
Do you have different friends asking you to come with them in different guilds?
What do you feel makes a strong guild?

Once again, no need to answer the questions themselves. They're there to start you thinking. Feel free to discuss any facet of guild life that comes to mind.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is RibKage:

Pretty much the backbone of any online game is its community and in turn I think guilds (and good in game friends) are what keep most people logging in every day. They are one of, if not the most important part of any online game. Time and time again Ive heard people say "if it wasnt for my guild Id have quit a long time ago" in one way or another. I know I can say that statement is true for me. I played Asherons Call on and off for 3 years and change. There is no way Id have stayed if it wasnt for my allegience.

Unfortunately, Ill be looking for a guild sometime throughout my WoW career. Im not one to just hop onto the boat and except a blind invite though. I gotta adventure and hang out with someone for a while before I join thier guild. I always disliked guild hoppers (people who just join and leave different guilds constantly).

I hate to be corny but PallyDog pretty much hit the nail on the head with, "My ideal for the guild is a group of people who respect each other, support each other, and can enjoy each other's company.". That, my friends is the perfect description for a guild. Its the exact same thing you expect from close friends and family. I want a guild that when I log into the game, I feel at home with, just like a family.

Yeah, its kinda lame, but thats the truth. Ive been in some really bad guilds, so I have strong feelings about this.



Runner-up #1 is -boi-:

I feel that in order to make a strong guild, you should build it w/ the people there. Sure you may want to bring over a few people from another game, BUT you still dont know if those people will like the game. Part of my gaming experience is meeting new people and making new friends. I think I would be missing out on a big aspect if I just ran w/ the same kids from game to game.

I can only think of 2 people that I would like to see from AC join me here. That will leave it open to RL friends and mainly the rest of the WoW community.

As for the actual guild I would like a family setting w/ different classes that work well together hunting. Same goes for the 2ndary skills too. Plan your skills w/ your good friends so you can both benefit.



Runner-up #2 is Sardoren:

I've played quite a few online games in my time, and have been a part of a guild/clan in most of them. During that time I've learnt a few things about joining other groups of gamers.

1) Don't ever join a guild solely on one person who you know well/really like/is well respected. If that person leaves (happened to me twice), you're left with a group of people who you possibly don't know, or don't even get along with.

2) Just because a guild is themed on a TV Show/Book series/Movie you really like, and all the other guildees are into it, doesn't mean you'll have anything remotely in common with them.

3) Join a guild with people who match up with your usual playing hours. Nothing is as depressing as logging in and seeing absolutely noone else on. If it isn't then you have a pretty bad relationship with your guild.

Joining a guild that you can stick with means playing with the other guildees, not just one or two a couple of times, but a good number fo them on a regular basis. Talk to the guildees about their guild, talk to the leader/officers, hell talk to other people about the guild (with a grain of salt).

Finding a good group of people you love to play with is what MMORPG's are all about, happy hunting.









Topic of the Week - Who Will You Leave Behind?
12-01-2003

Who Will You Leave Behind?

I think many of us started playing a certain MMORPG because of a friend. Many have made friends in game. It's a problem if all your friends don't play on the same server or with the same faction.

How do you plan on dealing with that?
Do all of your friends plan on switching to WoW?
Will you try to play two games at once?

No need to answer each question specifically. Just share your feelings for an open discussion.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is TigerShard:

I usually leave myself behind. I am very studious so I don't have much time to play MMORPGs, even though some of my friends do. I wanted to play AC and AC2 with them, but I always end up lagging behind because I don't have the time to play. I joined AC late, so that was the problem there, but I started playing AC2 right when it came out, but my friend's still shot past me so fast. So, I vow in WoW not to get left behind. I'm not joining the guild my friends are in, because I know I can't keep up. I'm hoping in WoW I can finally make some new friends will playing a MMORPG that will be in the same situation I am.



Runner-up #1 is Bishop_WoW:

I have a group of friends that I know in real life and for the most part we buy all the same games and play together and everyonce and a while have LAN's together.

Every single member in this group has been on the edge of their seats waiting for WoW to come out. We will all go to the same server.

As far as faction wise, Horde or Allience, I am not possitive but I think that we will pretty much be split down the middle there. How will we deal with this?

Well on a day to day basis we will keep in touch via message boards and sooner or later will all have characters in both the Horde and the Allience. I am sure there will also be times when we will get together and share our tales of our different expiriences in the different factions.

No one will be left behind. All must join The World of Warcraft. To those who decide not to, your fate is pretty straight forward...

RUN WITH US, OR BE TRAMPLED UNDER OUR FEET, either choice is sure to provide a ... breath taking expirience.

-Bishop



Runner-up #2 is WoWBunny:

Those I have left behind...

With life, comes change... No matter how hard you try to hold onto the past, nothing truly stays the same.. Some people choose to evolve and move on to greener pastures, while others choose to hold their ground and fight the good fight..

My time in DAoC was a time for both character and personal growth as I discovered more about who I was and who I wanted to become... In that game, I leave behind many dear friends who stood by me during the hard times and gave me many reasons to smile and laugh during the best of times.. I leave behind interesting people who, though I may not have always seen eye to eye with, always gave me something to think about.. I leave behind the snowy hills of Uppland, a creature named Durval who rarely seemed to drop my favorite red drum, a basement full of trophy mobs that seemed to take a lifetime to collect and a beautiful hillside outside of Camelot where so many memories were made and futures begun.. Most of all, I leave behind a piece of my heart because you cannot give of yourself without leaving a part of you behind..

However, I bring with me much more then I left behind.. I carry with me friendships that have grown and blossomed outside of the game.. wonderful memories, sometimes happy, sometimes bittersweet, of all the paths I have crossed and roads I have travelled.. I take with me a sweet little boy from Cotswold who stood by my side in game and in the process taught me so very much about life and consequently became my dearest friend and so much more.. I take with me the knowledge that anyone who claims these are just games has truly never played one, never truly lived within those realms..

I hope to see familiar names when I begin playing World of Warcraft, but I understand and accept that there will be some I will not.. Like I said before, Some people choose to evolve and move on to greener pastures, while others choose to hold their ground and fight the good fight.. and I can respect that each person looked deep inside them before making their choice.. I also know that while I leave a part of myself behind, I take a part of each of them with me... and I cherish each and every mark they have left on me along the way for it helped make me into who I am today..

~ Siusan
~ Bunny
~ Beth

-------------------------------------
I started this post just merely being my sweet, cutesy self, but as I began to think about everything, my sentimental side kicked in.. It's truly amazing how very much a few thousand people sitting behind pixellated characters can affect one's life.. I think anyone who's truly emersed themselves in any mmorpg and the society within can understand where I am coming from..

for everyone else, I suggest just smiling and nodding.. I'm used to it :>

~Bunny












Topic of the Week - Name That Toon!
11-24-2003

Name That Toon!

How do you select the names for your toons?
Do you follow a role playing theme?
Are they generated?
Is there a name you're always known by?
Do you keep all the names of your toons along a certain theme?
Does a new name just come off the top of your head?
Have you ever named your toons after favorite characters in books?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is Bunnyboo:

I like names that are cute and funny. I think sometimes people get too serious when they come up with names for their characters. I want to be able to laugh at myself because I'm not perfect, or even fairly good at this genre. I just try to pick a name that is happy, short, has some kind of alliteration or rhyme to it, and is non-threatening.

I don't theme my character's names together, like people that use the same prefix or suffix, because I like to think of each character as an individual and not some kind of multiple personality montage. I used to do this in an old game, and the problem I had was that when I played my priest, I was a happy nice healer, and when I played my misvheivous little thief, everyone hated me. Sometimes people took their hate for the thief out on my priest, and that wasn't cool - I don't think she desevered it. So now I keep my characters seperate. Only my really close friends and clanmates know who my alts are.

I don't use name generators. I've tried them, but they just don't appeal to me. And I really hate stupid names like Yournamehere or Ilikecheese or ANYTHING with all caps or numbers and symbols in it.

Names I've used in the past...

Bridget (lovely name - usually taken tho lol)
Purloinia (thief)
Hellfaria (tank or dmg dealer)
Merlina (mage)
Thriftanny (whatever lol)

In WoW I want to be a troll hunter. I'll probably think of my name after I finish creating my avatar. I sometimes try to come up with them first, but it's easier when I have the character model right in front of me.



Runner-up #1 is Vorkeld_Wqlfhound:

I follow a simple formula:

If it has a Vork in it... it's prolly me!

This has helped greatly in games like DAoC and AC2. I'm the type of player who enjoys the friends I've made in the game and it's really nice to know that my friends can do a /who Vork to find me.

It's even helped friends find me in AC2 when I switched games. Getting a tell from someone in the game asking if I'm "the Vork" from DAoC puts a smile on my face.

I like to think I play well, I help people, and people enjoy my company in-game. That's the kind of community building attitude that I think makes these games work for so many of us.

See you in game! And look for a Vork!



Runner-up #2 is Altanic:

How do you select the names for your toons?
No explainable system at all. I've used everything. Concatenating partial words/names, replacing letters, morphing foreign words and names... everything I can think of. As long as the result looks neat I don't much care if the original idea is lost so long as the result is good.

Do you follow a role playing theme?
not really. I'm not a hardcore RP'er but this doesn't mean I like "d00dish" names. I like "authentic" sounding names but I just like them to be my own.

Are they generated?
only by my own demented mind

Is there a name you're always known by?
Altanic is my longest running name. Been using it since my son was born in 1994.
'AL' = first 2 letters of my name
'TA' = first 2 letters of wife's name
'NIC' = first 3 letters of son's name

Do you keep all the names of your toons along a certain theme?
Not really. Sometimes I'll find a pattern and knock a few names out of it before moving on but it's as close to a "theme" as I've ever come so far.

Does a new name just come off the top of your head?
sometimes. Other times I suffer over it for a few days and go through a few pages of paper before I'm satisfied.

Have you ever named your toons after favorite characters in books?
not once, not ever. I like MY names.







Topic of the Week - PvP and PvE
11-10-2003

PvP and PvE

Do you prefer PvE or PvP?
Do you think that PvP is an essential part of the game?
Is excelling PvP the end goal of a game?

Just a few questions to open some discussion. Please feel free to discuss any aspect of PvE and PvP that comes to mind.

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is quyesial:

I have played DAOC for two years now, and before that I was on the EQ race war servers.

I think the best, most inspired thing that Mythic did was to make a concensual, yet all out PvP environment by putting in the frontier zones, and walling off the rest of each realm for PvE only.

Yes, I am all in favor of "PvP", by which I really mean a DAOC style setup. All out PvP brings out the gankers and griefers, and it is just no fun after awhile.

But having a "war" going on does several things. One, it constantly edges into the mind of even the most PvE-oriented DAOC players, because of relic raids and calls-to-arms. The fact that the inter-realm warfare is going on constantly enforces a kind of "state of siege" mentality that colors the game, in a positive way, for everyone. You just don't get that kind of tension from even the most vicious AI based enemy.

Also, the war essentially allows the players of the different realms to write their own endgame content.

Unpredictable, hilarious, maddening, and often incredibly fun things happen when the realms go at eachother. My best all-time MMRPG experience was during a failed Hibernian relic raid against Albion on Guinever server. The hibs hit one of our relic keeps, took the relic, but couldn't get it out of Albion past the mobilized Alb defenders. The group with the relic parked in an out of the way place in the Alb frontier while more hibs came into Albion to try to cut through the defenses so they could get the relic out. Meanwhile, Midgard sent a ton of people into Albion to try to steal the relic from the hibs before they could get it out of Albion.

The result was an hour-long 3 way battle at the hib milegate in Hadrians wall. Each side was pretty much equal, and if they attacked one enemy, the uninvolved side would notice that they were spread out and attack the attacker. Then the side that was attacked would attack that realm, and so on. For an hour or more, it carried on like this, with upwards of 300 people going at it. I have no idea how many people I killed or how often I died, but it was truly epic in the finest sense of the word.
You don't get that, even in the best PvE boss mob encounters.



Runner-up #1 is RemeeVandre:

I personally thrive on pvp. I'm hearing people say they started pvp back in Neverwinter Nights or in Dark age. I'm guessing you guys never played the true creation to pvp, Ultima Online. Now this was a game that got it right from the start, that is until they introduced trammel and fellucia. No area was 100% safe. You litterally could be killed while at the bank, or while you were hiding in your house. There were penalties to it yes but for those that didn't care for being labeled murderers and being strong enough to use the bank for theives and murderers it was a wonderful experience. Sure nobody likes being picked off by someone stronger but doesn't that make you have the urge to get stronger yourself and go back and seek revenge? I know I got pked my fair share in uo but that nowhere near stopped me from getting back into it so that I could become a vicious killer of killers. I just think that there hasn't been a game that has matched pvp like that. I can only hope that WoW brings back that little bit of what I came to love about pvp.



Runner-up #2 is KalMavet:

PvP matters simply because ALOT of ppl that will play WoW, such as myself, are coming from games like Daoc where PvP is the endgame. I don't wanna level unless its to PvP. PvE gets old in a hurry for me.

Granted i'm fairly new to MMORPG's but common sense tells ya that PvP is gonna be important. I'm not talking about SWG or SB pvp but FACTION based, which is obviously already in WoW. I bet they will make it very similar to Daoc but not a total ripoff. afterall, daoc had a good thing going for itself with RvR and with the release of ToA a PvE expansion, alot of ppl (again myself included) just don't care anymore. WoW will capitalize on that.

They'll have enough content and depth to have a very fun PvE (definately Daoc's problem) but there will plenty of faction based pvp, i hope :P

My $.02









Topic of the Week - History
11-03-2003

History

WoW will be coming to us with a long and developed history from the previous Warcraft games. Do you feel history of the regions and the races adds anything? Does the storyline add to your enjoyment of the game? Would you take time to learn more of the history outside of the game?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is EASK:

If one considers roleplaying to be part of the gameplay in a rpg, then the history of Azeroth is more important in WoW than in any other Warcraft game to date. More than just providing flavor and meaning to the setting, it also becomes the foundation for a major element of gameplay.

History gives meaning to the conflict between the Horde and Alliance, and to the reasons each race favors one side over the other. It lends significance to the need for adventurers and the purpose of questing. Most of all, it provides relevance and prevents the setting from being entirely arbitrary. This is, for the roleplayer in me, very important as it provides a yardstick against which I might measure the actions and motivations of my character. This isn't restricting: I can make any kind of character I want. History merely defines how that character will fit into the world.

A small coincedence: the word "role" is just the word "lore" with 2 letters switched :P



Runner-up #1 is Korinn:

I believe Lore and History add alot to the game and it makes sense of quests, people, updates, ect... Without it, you are just going through the motions and not being a part of anything.

It is like going to a Bear-Packer game but not understanding why they are so special. Unless you know the history, the importance of winning, and what loosing does to the opponents fans, you will not appreciate the game as much.



Runner-up #2 is RuFi0_V:

History adds way too much to an MMORPG to be ignored. Whether massive or not, a role-playing game emersses the player into a society, culture, and world that he/she has never experienced before. The origin of any gaming world is the foundation in which the future of that world will come to be, or thrives to become. Without history, a game becomes a task and not an adventure. Meaningless leveling in hopes to fight meaningless battles later on, what player wants that? Wouldn't the game become more interesting if the player knew WHY he was fighting opposing forces? Were his experiences up until now for nothing? Why is he here? What is the history of this legendary sword he wields in battle every day? History can add so much meaning to everything, from the origin of your race to the origin of your very own equipment. Just as gaming developers thrive for great graphics and class balance, so should they for adding history into their games.











Topic of the Week - Hybrid, Caster, or Tank?
10-27-2003

Hybrid, Caster, or Tank?

With WoW coming out everyone is speculating on what class they'll be playing. Many of us already have our favorite types. Do you prefer playing a Hybrid, a Caster, or a Tank? Will you be trying something new with WoW or sticking to your usual? What's your favorite for PvE? For PvP? Or do you have one favorite for all?

Read the thread and respond here!


This week's winner is King-of-the-Monkeys:

I would like to be a hybrid, ie a druid. It looks to me like they are the perfect groupmate and awsome at soloing. Not only can you heal yourself after batter for little down time, it looks like you can melee and you'd be extremely deadly with the transformations. Also I can't wait to have my fun with rogues and get that light spell stuck on them.

I want to be a rogue fisher, get a robe and staff and run around till a stealther pops up then bam, turn into a bear and rip him up!

Runner-up #1 is raarg27:

Personally I'm drawn toward the healer classes, be it priest or shaman for both PvP and PvE play. Healers tend to be the most group oriented (and reliant) of all classes, and grouping with and interacting with other folks is high on my priority when I play an MMORPG.

Plus you get the added benefit of being able to help others, especially lowbies, and making tons of new acquaintances and friends.

Runner-up #2 is SpiritxCat:

It seems like we are getting an awful lot of colored names around here.

Anyway, rogue is the class that I will play. Melee is where it’s at, you in the thick of the fight, chaos all around, with no room for error. I am not much of a main tank person though, preferring the ability to quickly strike and get away as opposed to standing there and slugging it out.

Rouges are the special forces of MMORPGs. They are always the first in, always alone, they hit the target hard, and then melt away for the escape. Its that added element of not having a safety net so you know if you screw up your going back to bind that makes them so much fun to play.

While not designed for prolonged combat, they are an essential part of any raid with the ability to neutralize the enemy's biggest threat so that the other group members can overcome the enemy force. They excel in the role of information gathering and early threat detection by letting the group members know the location and composition of the enemy forces. While there are many solo superganker noobs out there the best rogues are a valuable asset to any combat group.

SC



















































