
		
	
Blizzard Insider Interview
Posted on 03/25/04 by Loren_3000


Interview with the World of Warcraft Development Team:

The Insider sat down with Producer Shane Dabiri and the World of Warcraft design team to get an inside look at how Blizzard's ambitious massively multiplayer game is coming along.

BI: In what ways is World of Warcraft different from the other MMORPGs out there?

SD: First and foremost, World of Warcraft will immerse players at ground level in the unique fantasy setting and rich history of the Warcraft universe. Many of the things that players have come to love about the previous Warcraft games have gone into making up this living, breathing world. Furthermore, we're putting a lot of work into making World of Warcraft accessible to an extremely wide audience of players. Many of the MMORPGs ("Massively-Multiplayer-Online-RPGs") currently on the market target hardcore game players and are characterized by complicated game mechanics and somewhat monotonous "level grinding." Our goal from the start has been to create a streamlined interface that allows players to delve into the world quickly, and we're also working hard to give players a multitude of things to do within that world.

In addition to "leveling," World of Warcraft strives to flesh out other forms of gameplay in order to provide players of varying skill levels with many things that they can enjoy doing. We're accomplishing this by creating solid game mechanics around such things as a rich trade-skill experience, a system of politics based on the Warcraft races, player-to-player social interaction, player-vs.-player combat, and even player transportation. All of this bundled into an intuitive, customizable interface will give players a universe to adventure in and enjoy for years to come.

BI: What's it been like to translate a top-down, real-time-strategy setting into a 3D, first- and third-person world?

SD: It's something that we've been wanting to do for a long time. Although controlling your heroes and units from the top down has proven to be an exciting experience, I don't know anyone in the company who hasn't thought about what it would be like to actually be on a Warcraft battlefield and play as one of those heroes leading a group of other players to victory - that's the kind of experience we want to bring to the world. Because the series has developed such a strong and unique artistic feel, it's been extremely fun to take those colorful little units and create high-poly-count, high-res-textured, fully animated versions for World of Warcraft. The first time we saw an Orc onscreen in full glory, we couldn't help but say "Zug Zug!"

BI: What are some of the things you're doing to make World of Warcraft appealing and accessible both to new/casual gamers and to longtime MMORPG players?

SD: We've taken considerable time designing our user interface because it is the gateway to the game. You can rarely make a game too easy to use. The real trick is making it easy to learn, but difficult to master - that's a mantra you hear a lot around Blizzard. Because the barrier to entry is minimized, anyone can get in and start playing immediately, regardless of skill level or experience with MMORPGs.

We believe the best way to captivate players of differing skill, however, is to give them varying activities to do in the game. Some players will want to delve into the gritty aspects of player-vs.-player combat and master the tactics necessary for defeating other players, others will want to explore how to build weapons and armor in the game, and there are those who might want to manage and facilitate the activities of a growing guild that they're in charge of.

Making each of these elements unique and different enough while maintaining some crossover to bring players together makes for a more compelling game experience. Bolstering one gameplay element over another will only draw players interested in that particular element - which could ultimately mean the difference between your game appealing to everyone or only proving entertainment to hardcore players.

We have a lot in store for people regardless of their preferred style of play. While we can't get into a lot of detailed specifics just yet, our approach involves building depth into whatever gameplay path the player chooses. For example, the layers of options that we're building into World of Warcraft for players whose primary goal is to be an item crafter are centered around developing new recipes or discovering rituals to create ancient and powerful items. These players could spend their entire play experience either questing for components to complete their master creations, or trading for those components, or even constructing the components themselves. Additionally, they could be involved in cultivating player economies in order to sell their creations. This is just a quick and generalized example, but it highlights the basic fact that we are working hard to create multiple and equally engaging ways for players to enjoy themselves in the game.

BI: Is there any new information you can give Insider readers about the game?

SD: Well, we've already announced several classes of playable characters for World of Warcraft, but we haven't really talked much about the abilities these classes will possess. You need to keep in mind that we are constantly adding to the scope of the game and changing things to keep the world balanced for all the various combinations of class, race, and playing style, but here are a few abilities that are currently in the game:


The Warrior

Warriors are the melee-centered class. These characters are tough as nails and masters of weaponry and tactics. The special abilities of the warrior are naturally combat-oriented. The Shield Bash is a skill that allows a warrior to strike enemies with a shield, stunning them for a short period of time. The Defensive Stance is a technique for warding off enemy attacks. When used, this skill increases the character's armor rating for a little while. The Whirlwind ability is an attack spell that sends the caster into a berserk fury, creating a destructive force that damages nearby enemies within a small area of effect.

The Mage

The Mages of Warcraft once centered their powers within the mageocracy of Dalaran. After that kingdom's destruction by the Burning Legion, however, the arcane arts spread to the far corners of the world. Mages can cast Fire Shield - a spell that surrounds a friendly target with a fiery barrier that deals out retaliatory damage to attacking enemies. Another defensive power in the mage's mystic arsenal is Frost Armor - an enchantment the caster uses to increase armor protection for a time. Mages can attack as well as defend, of course, and the Fireball is an offensive weapon that hurls a fiery magic missile at a single target.

The Shaman

Shamans are the spiritual leaders of their tribes and clans. They communicate with spirits, have visions of the future, and guide their people through the darkest of times. Many mistake their wisdom and serenity for a pacifist nature. When challenged, though, shamans have a range of powers available for dealing with threats to the natural order. The Lightning Bolt channels the energies of nature into a fearsome electrical charge that strikes a single enemy. The Lightning Shield is the reverse of the offensive bolt, generating an electrical barrier around a friendly character - damaging any that dare to attack. Questing in World of Warcraft is bound to be dangerous, and player characters won't always be on the right side of a sharpened edge. The shaman can prove a valuable ally during these times by calling on the aid of friendly spirits to heal wounds through the Restoration spell.













		
	
Summary of 4gamer.net E3 Videos
Posted on 06/17/03 by Nehkara


The three videos from 4gamer.net are the best quality we have seen so far besides the ones from Blizzard and there are many new things and locations seen in them... so I figure I'll do a full summary.

Video #1:
http://www.4gamer.net/store/movie/e3_WoW1.mpg

- The first thing we see here is a human female mage casting frost armour on herself as she stands in front of a waterfall in what looks like a marshland. Notice how when she turns around you can see far into the distance and the sun is reflecting off the water.

- Next she engages in a fight with a Mosshide Gnoll and employs several ice spells including chain of ice, as well as polymorph.

- We now see the mage swimming in a new location called Baradin Bay. Notice how detailed the environments are even on the floor of the ocean with plants all over the place.

- We soon see a large sunken ship; you can see all of the intricate work on the hull. The woman enters a small hole in the side where a cannon protrudes and begins swimming through many large rooms, the last one with a cannon laying on the floor.

- Now the view switches to Stranglethorn Vale where we see a small bird fly through the trees, and then the woman enter the PvP Coliseum. The architecture here is very impressive. As she enters we see a very large double-sided wooden gate that is currently raised.

- The next scene is in a cave with many ogres, they do not attack and I'm not sure why but I'm sure we will find out eventually. While she walks through the cave you can see in the top right that she has Frost Armour on and there is a vent in the ground spewing gas or dust. As she walks outside we see another new area called Loch Modan... which is presumably in Khaz Modan. When she walks outside we see a rocky and hilly landscape with many scraggly trees... and ogres everywhere. Also to note is that some of the ogres carry weapons.

- An interesting effect we see in this video is the behaviour of the head of her staff, how the smaller crystals orbit around the larger ones... very cool effect.

Video #2:
http://www.4gamer.net/store/movie/e3_WoW2.mpg

- Here we see the same female human mage in what looks like a rather cold cave, two giant mushrooms are growing just to her right. We can see that her paper doll screen which also doubles as her attribute screen is open as well as he inventory bags. This is a very interesting part of the videos as we get a very good look at the character screen and we find out this particular character is level 31. We see demonstrated for us how you can rotate the view of your character in the paper doll. Then the user mouses over her staff and several other items their stats as well as the character's stats are as follows:

Sandra
Level 31 Human Mage

Strength: 21 Attack: 153
Agility: 21 Damage: 45-54
Stamina: 25 Attack Speed: 3.20
Intellect: 51 Defence: 148
Spirit: 34 Armour: 83

Magebane Staff
Epic Quality
Two-Hand Staff
45-53 Shadow Damage Speed 3.20
Effect: Fire Damage Bonus
Effect: Frost Damage Bonus
Level 35
Min Level 30

Fingerbone Bracers
Good Quality
Wrist Cloth
5 Armour
+1 Intellect
+7 Mana
Level 25
Min Level 20

Inferno Robe
Good Quality
Chest Cloth
10 Armour
+1 Fire Resistance
+1 Intellect
Level 26
Min Level 21

????(I assume this is a cape of some sort but I can't see the name)
Good Quality
Back Cloth
8 Armour
+1 Shadow Resistance
+1 Spirit
+1 Stamina
Level 30
Min Level 25

Azora's Will
Good Quality
Unique
Finger
+15 Mana
Level 20
Min Level 15

Bluegill Sandals
Good Quality
Feet Cloth
6 Armour
+2 Stamina
Level 21
Min Level 16

Other things to note are that Sandra has resistance from top to bottom as follows:

Holy: 14
Fire: 15
Nature: 14
Ice: 14
Shadow: 15

She has 13 available skill points.

When the user removes her Bluegill Sandals, you can see them be removed on the character as she is now barefoot. Also, we see how easy it is to equip items as all you need to do is drag the item to the image of your character and drop it and it will equip to the proper slot.

- We now see her Mage Skills/Proficiencies screen and the Spell/Ability screen. Also, you can see she has Frost Armour on.

- Sandra is now just outside Stormwind and now comes a very very cool part. She enters the GIGANTIC gates of Stormwind and enters the Valley of Heroes, on either side of the road we can see huge statues of heroes. There are small plaques on each statue that will inform you of who the hero is. After looking at several of these plaques, she continues into the city. You notice how the city is definitely ready to defend itself... there are giant doors on the main gate, water on either side of the bridge that makes up the valley of heroes, and 4 large metal gates that can drop down that are positioned at the entrance to the city after going through the Valley of Heroes.

- The first thing you notice when you enter the city is its huge size, you can see buildings far into the distance and each one seems very detailed. To make it easier to find shops, the signs hang over the street and when you mouse over them it displays the name of the shop. Sandra runs down the street and then enters a building on her left which is an alchemy supply store. There are flasks and containers all over the place and on the front desk is a bottle with green smoke coming out the top. A simple 1 click on the NPC and the buying interface is open. The detail is amazing in the shop, there are sacks and barrels and many other things all over the place in the shop.

- Sandra now run back outside, note that you can see into every building because there is no loading when entering them, as Sandra run down the road you can see trees and planters scattered along the road. Sandra turns left and continues through the streets of Stormwind. The detail of these areas is very impressive, fountains and trees and street lamps... as well as numerous NPCs populating the city.

- Sandra is now in another area of Stormwind on a bridge between districts. You can see the district on the left has blue roofs (Mages) and the district on the right has red roofs (Warriors). In the distance you can see large buildings protruding from the skyline, places you can actually go...

- We now leave Stormwind and enter an area inside the Wetlands called Menethil Harbour. This town, despite being much smaller, looks great just like Stormwind. As she runs towards the docks we can see roadside lamps and several NPCs, on the dock there is part of a ship hull and a cannon sitting there. We see once again the ability of characters to jump. Sandra walks onto the very large ship and although she doesn't enter any of the doorways it looks like there will be plenty of areas to go through on a ship. There are many NPCs here as well.

- We switch locations once again and now enter Blackrock Spire, the details of the walls show yet again the incredible detail that the artists at Blizzard have created the world. As we have seen before there are magma spouts from many places along the walls as well as a giant pool of it below. There are giant bridges and chains all over the place securing the Dwarven architecture.

- We enter Kalidar now which is the Night Elf starting location. We see the incredibly lush environment of the forests of Kalimdor as well as the first shot of a moon well. It looks rather crudely detailed at the moment but I would think that will change soon enough. We also see what I believe is a wisp high in a tree... then one of the most interesting parts of the video... we see that Blizzard has some very good water effects; Small waves and appropriately reflected sunlight as well as transparency, it looks great.

Video #3:
http://www.4gamer.net/store/movie/e3_WoW3.mpg

- The gameplay movie starts up with the now familiar character selection screen. A Female Human Mage named Sandra stands in red robes; her hairstyle is unique compared with screenshots we have seen so far. Along the right side of the screen each of your characters is listed. As you know each account has 10 character slots. Each character slot shows the characters name, level, class, and current location. In the bottom right-hand corner of the screen are two buttons; one titled “Change Realm” and the other is “Back”. Next the user switches to a Male Tauren Warrior named Slik that stands in the grasslands of Kalimdor, followed by a Female Dwarven Warrior named Nell, a Male Orc Warlock named Filrzul, and a Male Human Warrior named Tucker. Tucker is the character chosen as the user presses the “Enter World” button.

- It takes a little less than 15 seconds to load the game world and Tucker appears beside a Gryphon Master in Stormwind. The user simply clicks once on the NPC Gryphon Master and a map of Azeroth, Khaz Modan, and the southern tip of Lordaeron shows up on the screen. There are 4 destinations to choose from and Ironforge in Dun Morogh is chosen. Tucker hops on to the back of a Gryphon and the Gryphon takes off over the Valley of Heroes and then through the huge front gates of Stormwind. You can see that it’s possible to look around in every direction while riding the Gryphon and the view is amazing.

- The first location we fly over is Elwynn Forest which is a lush green with many trees, and then over Northshire Valley which has a similar environment. You can see Northshire Abbey to the left as we fly over. The next area is a small valley but quickly the view changes to an area called the Burning Steppes in which everything takes on a red tinge. We see several structures, the first is unidentifiable and the second looking a lot like an Orc Great Hall from Warcraft 3. You will also notice that off to the left there are patches of something black with smoke rising from it… it look like oil or tar. Large spires of rock are also prominent in the landscape. There is another building off to the right that looks similar to the first one but it’s still rather vague as to what it actually is. Near it is a very large statue of a hero of some sort, much like the statues in the Valley of Heroes.

- The camera now zooms in on the spells and skills on the bottom bar of the screen and the pans across to the other buttons (Character info, Spells/Skills, Quests, NPC dialogue, and Options in that order right to left) and Tucker’s backpacks and pouches.

- After zooming out briefly the camera then zooms in on the minimap in the top right corner. We can see how wonderfully detailed it is, showing every crater and hill and (in this case) open pit of lava. Also to note is that the character moves from the Searing Gorge into an area called the Cauldron just as the video ends.

Hope you enjoyed. You can email me feedback at nehkara@msn.com.
Thanks to Loren for helping me with part of the third video.

~ Nehkara 











 	
	
Interview with Lani Minella
Posted on 06/17/03 by Loren_3000


Introduction:

Lani Minella has worked in the industry of voice talent since early 1992, and to give you some indication of her experience, her company AudioGodz has done work in over 400 video game titles, including the upcoming Blizzard games: World of Warcraft, The Frozen Throne, and Starcraft: Ghost. Also of interest is the fact that many games stuffed in her resume include highly acclaimed RPG and MMORPGs, including the popular Everquest series (and Everquest 2), Neverwinter Nights, Diablo 1 2 and LOD which should be familiar to Blizzard fans, and Shadowbane. She's also proud of the work she's done on some popular FPS games including Half-Life and its add-on, Counterstrike: Condition-Zero, the Duke Nukem series, and Unreal Tourney 2003. Without further ado, let's get to the interview!


Interview:

Loren_3000: 	Could you please explain who you are and what you do, for the fans who don't know?
Lani: 	I cast, direct, write and do voice acting for computer games as well as TV, film and radio.

Loren_3000: 	Now I tried recording my voice and it took me like 20 times to get it right. And even then it didn't sound too great. But you are very talented in being able to mimic voices. How did you learn to do that?
Lani: 	You asked how I learned to do that........well I guess it started by being on morning drive radio where they'd ask me to imitate whoever was in the news that day and other characters. Then I began doing celeb sound-alikes when the laser disc was being pitched to Sony and Phillips and that same company was doing kid's games. I always wanted to be in cartoons to see how the animation can really change a voice so amazingly, so I figured I could get some stuff for a character demo from capturing game images. That never happened, but I went to several trade shows and discovered that the best way to be of use to a game company is to be a one-stop shop----anything from writing to sound production and voices, casting, directing.

Loren_3000: 	You've been involved in the gaming industry for quite some time now, but is it like "they'll call you" or do you still have to go door knocking?
Lani: 	I can say that it's become less necessary for me to look for work as I've done games since 1992 and over 400 titles.

Loren_3000: 	Have you ever done voice acting for movies? There are a lot of opportunities nowadays in children's movies like Finding Nemo or Monsters Inc. that are all animated.
Lani: 	I've recently done some interesting parrot VOs (voice overs) for an independent film, but I'm still hoping to break into the animation industry in more depth.

(Lani has also in the past done voiceovers for several big budget movies including Men in Black, Alien Resurrection, and animated features such as Fern Gully and Popeye).

Loren_3000: 	How many people work at AudioGodz and why did you start the company?
Lani: 	A single actor is too hard for a producer to coordinate with other individuals to make everything come together succinctly, so I started AudioGodz. I have several musicians, studios and actors from around the world that work with me and I have also done work outside the game industry for radio and film, commercials, educational, industrials, books-on-tape, phone interactive systems etc.

(Previously AudioGodz has used Lethal Sounds as an associate. I found they had some fun samples of the kind of sound effects, music, and voice overs that a professional company like AudioGodz can do).

Loren_3000: 	When working, are you given a lot of freedom to improvise, direct or create the personalities for your own characters? Or was it all on a very strict schedule?
Lani: 	Regarding whether I'm allowed creative license.......I can only say generically, that it depends on the producer and the company. Often I may be told I have to sound like someone who has a non-descript voice like Cameron Diaz, Ashley Judd etc. Again people do probably not desire their voice, but they like their acting or how they look.

One of the less fortunate things for those of us who aren't name film actors is that Disney started the policy of hiring "name" talent long ago. I imagine it was partly to draw the adult audience to come in with their kids to the movies. It's called Marquis Value and while it may help some aspects of production, it has seldom proven to be worth the money spent in the game industry. Most gamers don't care if a celeb is doing a voice; they'd rather have a unique voice or no voice at all.

Loren_3000: 	A big difference between movies and games is that games often require very complex sounds to match specific animations. Tell us a little about how you put emotion into a voiceover.
Lani: 	I am one of the more expressive actors who excel in the attack, pain, death, etc stuff and often the adlibs get used. I like coming up with new characters and new ways to die, attack or be attacked. It is so amazing to see what the animators and modelers do with our voices. That's why I want to do cartoons.

(Lani in the past has dome many different death sounds. Painstaking detail is put into her work to ensure death from a blunt object sounds perfect and different from death by lava).

Loren_3000: 	As fans, we know Blizzard has a history of putting the names and voices of their own developers and families into their games. What's the difference between that "in-house" talent and what you do?
Lani: 	I work fast, save post-editing time & trouble and bring an endless variety of possible voices to any project. That's what separates the exceptional voice actors from the announcers and in-house staff that still tend to require lengthy repairs or re-dos. When the talent is good, everyone enjoys the experience and it shows in the final product. So far I have had a tough time getting a new agent because they say they make more money by sending out one-trick ponies that make more mistakes and take their time. It seems I am now over-qualified. Go figure. I've had a lot of agents in the past, but most agents aren't all that busy in the VO dept.


Conclusion:

Although Lani wasn't able to answer our many questions about Blizzard games, and especially those prying ones about World of Warcraft, she was nice enough to give us a window into her career. Hopefully what this interview has given Blizzard fans is a little excitement knowing such a talented voice actor is on the job. 








		
	
Blacksmith's, Apprentices, Etc.
Posted on 04/04/03 by Thrain Gravevisor


Blacksmiths, Smithee apprentices, etc.


Everyone in the World of Warcraft is hyped on that there will be different classes and skills, which they think of as different abilities such as Mages, Shamans, Warriors, etc. Instead I think apart from those mentioned, there will have to be different sort of skills required to run the game smooth. Say you had two low grade weapons. Why not take them to the local blacksmith and have them put together to form a better weapon? Why not go to a blacksmith, and be his apprentice? They never had this in Diablo II, and this would make WoW a much better community. Why not make money for trades and crafts? In the recently released wow gameplay movie, when it does a zooming shot over elwynn forest, you can see the many different shots of the shops with icons on them for what they stand for. I, Thor believe that in the World of warcraft, while still being a shaman or mage or warrior, that you can conquest and gain resources and much cash from different tertiary services to the community. If this is so, I'm opening up a tavern. If the time system somehow works like that in Warcraft III with fast night and day, then it should take you a year to build your shop in WoW Time. If it's in regular time, then maybe a little bit shorter. If this all works out, im definitley going to be paying my heart out for WoW, since this shows that Blizzard actually gives a hoot about what goes on with it's games. Especially with customers paying for all eternity.

Thank you for reading, and have a good day.

-Thrain Gravevisor 








What will make WoW different?
Posted on 02/23/03 by Jadix


Ok, im currently playing AC2 and noticed something about it that is also in every other MMORPG. I think if Blizzard did something different, then maybe they would have a next level MMORPG and would smoke their competition.

I noticed that while monthly updates are cool, and like quests change and stuff...they still fail to make it a real "living" world. Most monthly updates consist of a few quest updates, map changes, NPC location change etc. But blizzard can really breakthrough with their monthly updates. Instead of just changing what an NPC said or where he was located...they could change how each NPC felt about each race they encountered. If for some reason tensions mounted between orcs and human for a month or two, and a war was expected, i think it would be cool to see orc/human NPCs getting in arguements, Human NPCs refusing to help Orc players. This would bring in some fun for players because if you wanted, you could party with a human when you are orc, and the human player would have to "smuggle" you in to a city or something, or buy you potions you may need or whatever.
Also, whats the deal with NPC's standing around all day and night in one spot. I know there should be a few NPC's who are in a fixed location (ones you need to talk to for quest requirements etc.) But what about wondering NPCs? like guards that were off duty? or just random townspeople who walk around? Walking around a "living" world where everyone stands around all day gets really boring. No townspeople is also boring. I think it would be more realistic to include like 50 townspeople per city. They could consists mostly of the same race depending on where the city is, but there would also be some other races who happen to live there. As the story changes, fights could break out between the townspeople who dislike eachother because of racial differences that players would actually witness. Which brings up another thing. Im bored of READING quest instructions about recent happenings in the world. What if every 2-3 months a huge battle broke out somewhere. There would be much talk going on around the world from NPC's like townspeople and quest givers, so that everyone would know where it would be and what was happening. Players that chose to join the battle would gain LOTS of experience points for fighting in the battle. Battles could also go on for about a real day, and if someone dies in the battle they have to wait like an hour or so before they could rejoin it. They could battle other players of different/enemy races and also battle NPCs who would be equally respawned on each side to allow a constant battle that would last throughout the day. after the battle was over..whichever side won (would be cool if the players actually decided the winner of the battle) the world would change because of the battle. talk around towns would give news of what happened to the players who did not participate. because of LAG problems though, it may be better to have a few seperate battle not so large of scale all going on at the same time.
AC2 is getting pretty boring because all players follow the same path and have to all go through the same quests. I did not think mmorpgs were likes this. I thought each player would receive random quests and would follow their own unique path. This would not be so difficult because each place a player recieved a quest, the NPC giving the quest would give a random quest chosen from a large database of quests depending on the player skill, level, race, and player type. if you wanted to party up with friends and all do the same quest, you would party up before getting the quest and then the entire party would recieve the same one based on an average of their levels etc. or if you met up after each player had a quest, the party could recieve all the quests. and then every party member would still recieve credit for completing it even though they didn't talk to the actual NPC that gave the quests. (Merry and Pippen weren't kicked out of Rivendell just because they didn't talk to Gandalf and recieve the quest as did Frodo and Sam).
LAST thing that would also help make the world more "living" like. WONDERING monsters. you know how boring it is to run around a huge world where all the monsters and animals in it are all just chilling in their own little area? why not give each monster an AI which told it to walk on a path and actually look like its doing something? why do all monsters in MMORPGs have to be "wondering" in a 10 foot radius? i think it would be cool to see a pack of gnolls heading down to a water hole to get something to drink, then follow them back to their camp where they get some sleep. Then later on you may see the same pack out looking for food or something? just boring and repetitive to see monsters sit around all day. same with NPCs... 










 	
	
Mounts should get stuff too!
Posted on 02/23/03 by Jadix


i was sitting in class today and thinking about mounts while my history teacher rambled on about the Great Depression...

Heres what i came up with:
Ive been thinking about people arguing about mounts and how much energy you might put into raising ones EXP, and then if it unfortunately dies and youd have to start all over again. Well what if they were allowed to be resurected? Like back at your residence or at an altar somewhere or something, you could spend money or a little experience points to bring your pet back to life. The cost would not be too great though so that losing a pet would not be overly frustrating.

So i continued to think about mounts and pets and how blizzard could really raise the bar with them. So i began to think about the already released mounts, the wolf and the horse. Many people want the wolf to have an attack and to be able to attack while riding. People dont want to have flying mounts because of balance problems. I disagree, and have thought of a solution to the whole problem. What if each different mount "race" (wolf, horse, etc..) had the obvious ablitity to be mounted for faster speed, but what if each race had its own seperate ability. I was thinking the wolf would have a pretty strong attack, and average health. While a horse would not be able to attack...but would be able to act as a packmule and carry your extra items that cant fit in your personal inventory. so if you like collecting things, pick a horse. As for flying mounts, you would simply not be able to attack off of them in any way. their advantage would obviously be flight, but no player attacking of any sort off of them. And though they are flying they wouldn't have insane speeds, just be free of being attacked by melee monsters, and free of worry about landscape hardships like rivers and such. They would also have a stamina, so that you wouldn't be able to fly around forever, youd have to stop and let your flying mount regenerate. What do you think?

and lastly, what about armor and items for your pet/mount? How cool would it be to be able to give your horse battle armor for extra protection.. better horse shoes for greater speed etc. Wyverns(if included) could get amulets or something that would allow them to fly for longer periods of time. wolves would be given things to increase their attack damage and speeds as well. 












 	
	
Mounts should get stuff too!
Posted on 02/23/03 by Jadix


i was sitting in class today and thinking about mounts while my history teacher rambled on about the Great Depression...

Heres what i came up with:
Ive been thinking about people arguing about mounts and how much energy you might put into raising ones EXP, and then if it unfortunately dies and youd have to start all over again. Well what if they were allowed to be resurected? Like back at your residence or at an altar somewhere or something, you could spend money or a little experience points to bring your pet back to life. The cost would not be too great though so that losing a pet would not be overly frustrating.

So i continued to think about mounts and pets and how blizzard could really raise the bar with them. So i began to think about the already released mounts, the wolf and the horse. Many people want the wolf to have an attack and to be able to attack while riding. People dont want to have flying mounts because of balance problems. I disagree, and have thought of a solution to the whole problem. What if each different mount "race" (wolf, horse, etc..) had the obvious ablitity to be mounted for faster speed, but what if each race had its own seperate ability. I was thinking the wolf would have a pretty strong attack, and average health. While a horse would not be able to attack...but would be able to act as a packmule and carry your extra items that cant fit in your personal inventory. so if you like collecting things, pick a horse. As for flying mounts, you would simply not be able to attack off of them in any way. their advantage would obviously be flight, but no player attacking of any sort off of them. And though they are flying they wouldn't have insane speeds, just be free of being attacked by melee monsters, and free of worry about landscape hardships like rivers and such. They would also have a stamina, so that you wouldn't be able to fly around forever, youd have to stop and let your flying mount regenerate. What do you think?

and lastly, what about armor and items for your pet/mount? How cool would it be to be able to give your horse battle armor for extra protection.. better horse shoes for greater speed etc. Wyverns(if included) could get amulets or something that would allow them to fly for longer periods of time. wolves would be given things to increase their attack damage and speeds as well. 











		
	
The Pandaren
Posted on 02/26/03 by Jadix


The Pandaren. Quite a controversy we have here. Should the Pandaren be playable in World of Warcraft?
What started out as an April Fool's joke from Blizzard (even though it wasn't in April?) soon took over Warcraft in general. It was announced a few weeks ago that the Pandaren Brew master would be playable as a Neutral hero in Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne. Soon the forums were flooded with some Warcraft fans screaming how much they loved the Brewmaster, and others who thought it was un-Blizzard like to include a joke into an actaul Blizzard game.
The Pandaren being confirmed as playable in The Frozen Throne, brought up another question. Should and will the Pandaren be playable in World of Warcraft? Lets take a look at the arguments.
The Panda-fans argue that though the Pandarens were originally a joke, why cant they be in the game? They have almost the same history as the Tauren almost, at least the same amount of info about their history as the Tauren do. There are so many new races being added to the Warcraft Universe, why can't Pandaren be? Warcraft III introduced Nightelves and Tauren AND made them both playable. Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne introduced the Pandaren along with some others as playable. Tauren are also playable in World of Warcraft, so why cant Pandaren be playable?
In response to this argument, the anti-pandas are screaming that Blizzard would be foolish to include such a joke of a race into their games. The Pandas, were announced as a JOKE. They should STAY that way. The Pandaren carry around kegs of alcohal and have spells which include getting drunk and becoming an ultra-warrior. That is FUNNY, not serious! They also argue that the Pandaren would ruin the feel of World of Warcraft. People say that fighting along side drunk pandas would ruin the game.
Both of these are very good arguments and Blizzard needs to make a choice. IF they include the Pandaren as a playable race..they need to be very careful. There are many fans of warcraft out there who are sensitive to their view of the warcraft universe. Blizzard needs to pull it off perfectly, and since they are perfectionists, i have faith in them and their decisions. 










		
	
The old WC game play
Posted on 03/04/03 by Bornin_IronCliff


Most of us knew that thay were gonna make a WC3 expansion set. Unless somehow Arthas and the undead just stepped aside to let the WoW story line come in. With WoW's long term plans it seems that the final WoW expanson will end are journeys through Azeroth. They will most likely make Azeroth go to a final state of peace so that die hard WC fans can spend many happy years wondering around the world of warcraft with its entire history at a stand still and blizzard will put the whole WC story line aside for the next new blizzard game, wich will conclude the making of any of the "Classic WC game play versions" of warcraft. now we all are looking forward to WC in its new mmorpg form but most of us will still be battle.net junkies who still very much like the old click command game play, and would also like some new missions in that style. So, i wonder if blizzard will create one last WC game containing missions from the first night elf Vs.legion war and the high elf vs. troll war and maybe even the undead neurubian war. Personally i think it would be awesome and open many passages of previous warcraft history what do u think????
~Borinin


*EDIT* Fixed spelling errors, couldn't stand to read it. - Thrain Gravevisor 









A possible PvP solution
Posted on 02/23/03 by Jadix


i am a strong believer that there should be no restrictions to PvP killing...just consequences. Give people the power to do what they want. If someone steals an item from a monster you just killed before you had a chance to grab it...you should be able to do something about it. If someone pushes you down and steals ur girlfriends purse, are you gonna say "oh damnit...no fighting allowed here." no ur gonna go kick his ass. and if the player who steals the item is a much higher level than you, and you couldn't kill him no matter what...then why would he even want ur item? probably sucks compared to what you have and worth almost nothing to him.

Now i know you are saying to yourself "HAHA what a dumbass,all its gonna do is allow mass newbie killing for fun and nobody will want to play." well i have a solution to that. Say a level 50 person kills a level 5 person for "fun". immediatly afterwards, a reward be issued for his capture/killing and he would all of a sudden become hunted by the nearest 10 people who have bounty hunting skills. The reward would be based on the level difference between the newbie and the killer, so in this case exremely high. So..what if the nearest bounty hunters didn't want to kill him or weren't strong enough to? Well what if for every 10 levels of difference between the killer and victim, one NPC bounty hunter would be released with the intent on killing the killer. These would each be a lower level than the killer to allow for possible victory over them...AND to allow for player controlled bounty hunters a chance to kill him. NPC bounty hunters would try and kill the killer sometime in his next hour of gameplay..so he'd have to watch his back.

So..in essence, player killing newbs for fun would not be so "fun". 





A Psuedo Darwinistic Interlude into the World of Warcraft
Posted on 02/23/03 by Ishar Morrad Chuain


A Psuedo-Darwinistic Interlude into the World of Warcraft
By
Ishar Morrad Chuain


Wonder of wonders, an idea for an article comes from the bubbling stew that is mIRC. While mulling around on what to write, I made up a random theory about how there is too much sentient species on Azeroth that sparked a very interesting discussion. So zk and I (I hardly contributed though) made a list of the indigent, sentient species found on Azeroth. The rather long list is composed of the Night Elves, Humans, Tauren, Wyverns, Trolls, Gnolls, Murlocs, Ancients, Furbolgs, Harpies, Dwarves, Centaurs, Nerubians, Goblins, Owlbears, Sasquatches, Wendigos, Razormanes and Gnomes (whew!). Well, in any case, the question is, why are there so damn many of them?

You see this question has piqued my attention because there has to be something strange going on Azeroth for there to be 18 or so species. Earth, the only known planet to have a sentient life form, has only one (and that still is under much doubt…humans fit only the lower tiers of sentience in my opinion). Secondly, it took them a pretty short period to evolve their sentience. It took us a hundred million years to achieve what we have now (man has been around for only 2.5 million years) and yet from records (the manual) most of the species there, including the Humans, have been around for only ten thousand years or even less than that.

In light of that leap of logic there has to be something freaky going on the planet of Azeroth for something like this to happen. So to solve the problem we made up four (read that four) theories just because we have nothing to do with our lives and we like annoying all of you with inane things that will not improve your gameplay.

Theory 1 Creationist Theory

Ever seen the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel? There’s this great big mural that shows a big bearded guy reaching out to another guy who is naked. Well, this is a depiction of a well-known story among Christian Tribes called the Creation (btw I’m part of one of those Christian Tribes). Well as the Creation story goes a Great Being created man out of dust and breathed life into him. Then man went on and lived happily ever after (or something like that.) Anyway that’s the general gist of the Creationist theory. Some powerful, higher being/beings probably created the races of sentients found on Azeroth.

Kind of takes the fun away doesn’t it? Well we do know that Higher Beings created two of the sentient races. The Titans, an ancient race of Immortals, visited Azeroth a long time ago and created the Dwarves, a group of hardy, subterranean dwellers and the Dragons, awesome and terrifying beasts who soar the skies (I know that you know what Dwarves and Dragons are, I’m just doing that for effect). So it is entirely possible that some big uber-powerful Gods created most of the other sentients. If you look at it, there is an amazing plethora of Higher Being to choose from. There are the Titans, but there are also the Old Gods, the Guardians, the Burning Legion and who knows what else.

One question one has to ask is the question why? Why would anyone make the trouble of creating squabbling and annoying races of people who pester you to no end with their wishes and dreams? You see, in psychology, every action needs a motivation. Were the gods/goddesses/Gigantic Cows/Higher Beings masochists who wanted some really annoying pets fawning over them?

That question lies on Azeroth itself. You see, a lot of distinct and major occurrences happened on Azeroth that made it very important to a lot of the Big Guys. First, the Well of Eternity is there. It’s a big pile of cosmic energy. Heck, who wouldn’t love to own something like that and place it in his or her own backyard? So, some of the Big Guys create their stewards to protect the Well of Eternity. In fact, this is the precise reason that the Dragons were created…to protect Azeroth. One can also surmise that the Dwarves perform a similar function. But there may be two sides to the coin. What if, the other creatures, were created to take control of the Well?

This leads me to my Orion sub-theory, which also applies to Theory number 2 which I will explain later on. In any case, the Orion theory is based on Ben Bova’s novel by the name of “Orion”. The story is really simple. You see, way back in the distant past the Earth was populated by a race of gray skinned, telepathic, peaceful beings called Neanderthals. They were like the Who’s in Whoville. Suddenly, a race of other beings came and wiped them out. This other race flourished and populated the whole globe, finally coming to a point where they reach a state called civilization. They also (supposedly) built a lot of big and important things like Pyramids, Great Walls and Television. They were called homo sapiens. Now these creatures (sometimes they call themselves humans) were created by some otherworldly Great Beings specifically for the purpose of eradicating the Neanderthals. The Great Beings assumed that after fulfilling their main goal they would just die out and the Great Beings could do whatever they wanted with the planet.

Unfortunately, as seen above, that didn’t happen. Now the thing is, maybe this could also have happened to Azeroth? For example, what if the burning legion created a species to wipe out the NE during the War of Power? The Trolls maybe? I think they fit the profile. The Kobolds? Who knows? Only Blizzard knows! Anyway, let’s go on.

Theory 2 Transport Theory

Okay, we finally get some hustle going here. Let’s tackle the Transport Theory. The Transport theory, well, states that these races are probably, (shock and horror!) Transported from other planets/dimensions/space time continuums. Freaky…unbelievable even…but the thing is, it happened already. According to the records (that black book of Warcraft) one race was transported from another planet to Azeroth, where they started a war with another race. The transported race is called the Orcs (some call them the Izsera). But is this enough to prove that all the other races are transported?

Actually I don’t really think that all the races have been transported from another plane of existence, but I can prove conclusively, that one race was transported. Now which race is that? It’s the Humans of course. Let me tell you why.

First there’s already another planet that hosts a race of humans. This planet is called Earth (yes, the Humans are weird no? They actually named their planet for their word for dirt.). Anyway on this planet, there is a culture that is markedly similar to the one found on Azeroth. This culture we now tag as Celtic/British. In fact, most of the ideas and concepts that pervade the Azerothan Culture is found in the Celtic/British culture.

Secondly, all the Azeroth Humans, are white (Okay, tell me when you have seen a Black/Polynesian/Chinese Azerothan and I’ll quit this “job”). But what’s the special significance of this fact. Well it proves that the Azerothans are a transported species. You see if they had evolved on a place like Azeroth, they would have been more colorful than the monochromatic white they are now. By the looks of it you are more confused than ever so I’ll explain it a bit more.

When early Anthropologists studied the concept of color they found that the consistently, the more northerly a “race” is, the more lighter their features become and as the more equatorial a “race” is, the more darker their features become (I put in quotation marks on race because concepts like this shouldn’t exist.) A theory was given that this is because of the amount of sun in these areas. You see if you have to understand the concept of evolution, you have to understand the concept of survival of the fittest. If you can’t fit into the environment, the environment will kill you. For example if you lived in the more equatorial areas, the amount of sun you would have would be proportionately greater than people who are in the more northerly areas. Now it is scientifically proven that people who have lighter skin, lack a pigment called melanin, which protects us from too much radiation, therefore lighter skinned people get more radiation and radiation, causes sun burn, skin rashes and worse…skin cancer. So it would be logical to assume that, according to the rules of survival of the fittest, if you lived in equatorial places, it would be a bad place to be if you are light skinned. So bad in fact, that in Stone Age times, you wouldn’t have survived. You see you spent all day out there hunting and scavenging for food, you would have been more exposed to the sun than our umbrella plagued (yes, we have a plague of umbrellas!) times. So a lot of light skinned people died out in equatorial areas while darker skinned people thrived. While in the more northerly areas, the emphasis had changed. Now, these people needed to absorb more radiation in order to get their daily amount of vitamin-D, so the lighter skinned people outlived the darker skinned people and so on and so forth.

This leads me to another question. Why then did some cities have white people on very hot places like Australia and certain parts of North America? The reason is that these people were migrants meaning, they came from other countries. So when they went there, they were already white. The difference this time is, they were armed with umbrellas (or things like air conditioners, I’m not really sure). The thing is, there’s a point where evolution left off, and technology took over. So the North Americans survived because technology allowed them to do so.

In the same way, I posit the same thing about the Azerothans. They were transported from another planet, from a specific civilization. And they had all the technological know how to survive and overcome things like the heat from the sun etc. Anyway, if they did evolve on Azeroth they wouldn’t have turned as white as they are now. They would probably be more darker, or more latino, or maybe even a bit more Mongoloid.

But another question pops out. How did they get there? Well, there are those higher beings we talked about early on. Maybe they had a hand in this and their hands seem to be everywhere nowadays (watch your zippers). Or maybe, Stonehenge might not be just a very big pile of interesting rocks, or an oversized wristwatch, it might be inter-dimensional portal that leads to billions of worlds, interconnected by systems of weird, oddly arranged rocks. Maybe, Azeroth and Earth are much closer than we think it is. Anyway, who really knows all this stuff? Probably Rob Pardo. Let’s chase after him with burning torches and pitchforks and find out.

Theory 3 Well of Eternity/Strange Fuzzy Feeling Theory

This time we take a slightly different route. What if they really did all evolve on the planet of Azeroth? But because of the power of the well of Eternity they evolved much faster. Again let’s find some evidence of this on the records. It says here, that the Night Elves were once just a group of nomadic hunter-gatherers but when they came in contact with the Well of Eternity, they became the greatest Civilization Azeroth has ever known. So, the Well of Eternity has some pretty awesome powers. In fact, when it exploded, it spread all over Azeroth. So what might have happened is this all-awesome liquid/energy dropped all over the people of Azeroth. Well, they evolved. Which pretty much explains why Cows have religion, and Trees can talk (in fact they do more than talk, I mean look at Al Gore).

Again this leads to a lot of questions. First, we aren’t sure very sure if the wonder juice did this stuff. Secondly, why haven’t the “smart species” formed new civilization? This Theorycraft is an impractical science. But anyway how do we go about proving that this actually happened?

First, let’s point out the fact that the levels of sentience are staggering. If you look at it, some species are smarter than the others. In fact, even stranger is the Continent of Kalimdor, which seems to have smarter creatures than the continent of Azeroth. I’m still not sure why, but both seem to have equal proximity to the Maelstrom, the supposed site of the Well of Eternity. So I think it impinges on some of the ideas of the theory. But then again you have to compensate for a lot of factors. Like wind. For example, on that day, wind could have been blowing in one general direction, like a psuedo-coriolis effect. Another thing is Terrain. Azeroth is a lot more mountainous than Kalimdor so it could have been a possibility that the mountains of Azeroth partly shielded it from the blast.

Then again there’s also the host animals themselves. You have to count the fact that, some things shouldn’t have had brains, like trees but did grow brains. I think it’s both a matter of being responsive to the wonder juice, and proximity to the wonder juice itself. For example, the Kobolds, are rat type creatures that come from deep underground hence, way out of the reach of the Wonder Juice Blast. But since rats are already smart creatures by themselves, the very limited effect of the blast still changed them. While the Murlocs, are fish people, hence out in the open sea, and way open to the Wonderjuice Blast, but since fish have essentially primitive nervous systems, they aren’t the uber-powerful race that should have resulted. Which leads me, to the Ancients. My theory is, that these are the trees that are nearest the core-explosion. The effect was so great that they became very smart. But then again, I could be very wrong and I could spell the end of the world.

Anyway, the discussion of the theory ends here. This theory is probably the most plausible among the three because it’s the easiest to explain and it goes pretty much with all Blizzard has said. But then again, they just made me say that when the guy in the suit with the big, fat green guy came knocking down my door.

Theory 4 Combination theory

We come to the last theory. Now this last theory basically states that it might just be all of these factors. Which might be the most correct one. Because I can’t say that one theory is absolutely right so therefore I take the middle road and be safe. Again, the repeating idea is, who really knows? I mean we’re talking about a fictional place in a fictional time. Blizzard might be just screwing with us.

Anyway, I have to end this huge meaty man-hunk of an article, or I would die pretty soon of insanity. I hope you like it. It’s the result of me, banging my head repetitively on the keyboard. So, I bid you adieu and have a nice day.

*The Author then walks out the room into the incoming traffic










		
	
YOU ARE ALL WRONG ABOUT "ISLAND" TROLLS!!!
Posted on 02/22/03 by feigro


Ladies and gentlem.I am proud to anounce and bring up some information that will lead to a conflict in Races/creeps.....
People have been asking why trolls are creeps instead of a race,wand people have given such answers as "because the trolls in WC3 were island trolls and the in WoW are from the jungle" WRONG!!!!!!
no matter what any one says now,there is indeed a conlfict,because the player -controled Trolls in WC3 and the NPC Trolls in WoW are both the SAME!!!!

PROOF:if all you WC3 owners would please pick up your WC3 Game Manuals and kindly flip to page 86,you will find that under the heading "Troll Headhunter" it says,and i quote...

"Though the Horde allied itself with the evil forest trolls during the second war,the alliance was short lived due to th horde's eventual defeat.But Thrall,on one of his many journeys,befriend a tribe of shadowy trolls form the steamy jungles of STRANGLETHORN"

I don't think that I need to go any further,thank you and good night... 










How much do you/does Blizzard know? (This is not offensive)
Posted on 02/20/03 by SilverDragon936


I was thinking about this, and I was wondering, how much info do you think Blizzard really knows about this game?

Have we really thought about this from Blizzards side? I mean, yea, we're in the dark, but how do we know they dont know alittle more than we? Yea, they test it and everything, but how much do they really know? Do they not want our hopes up? Its probobly not that they like us in the dark or not only that they dont want the other companies to know, it might be that they dont know themselfs whats going to be in it. Yea, they have 4 races out, and it took them atleast 1.5 years to get it so they liked it, now they just need to test all the other possible races, Blood/High Elves, Half Elves, Night Elves, Trolls, Goblins, exc...

They are expecting the FIRST beta to start in 2003, but that doesnt mean that its the only one. They might make betas long and alot of them while there testing the other races they might put in it.

Has anyone really thought about how much Blizzard knows about whats going to be in WoW?

If anyone here knows how much time it takes to make alittle game and make it the best they can without the publics opinion, then they should be able to guess how much work goes into a MMORPG, and then multiply that by 2 or 3, because im pretty sure it takes longer than they think.

Also keep in mind Blizzard is a perfectionist, and they want very few - no patchs, and want to make it as hack free as possible. I think thats why there taking so long with the v1.10 patch for D2. If you wondering, yes, they say there still working on it. Check the Battle.Net forums.

If you want realistic, look somewhere else, because Blizzard has said that they go for cartoonish more than realistic, even though to me, there stuff looks the closest to real that stuff comes (there movies anyway). I still consider WarCraft 1 better than any C&C game.

Posts questions and Comments, Ill answer then the best I can. Sorry if I strayed off at any part of it. Even though it makes sense to me, it might not to you. 








		
	
[Fansite Chat] - 03/05/04
Posted on 03/25/04 by Loren_3000


World of Warcraft Fan Site Chat - February 5, 2004.
Members of Blizzard met with Blizzard Fan Sites on Battle.net to discuss World of Warcraft. The chat was attended by Blizzard Reps:

Donna Anthony (Katricia), World of Warcraft Community Manager.
World of Warcraft Development Team: Mark Kern, Rob Pardo, Shane Dabiri, and Jeffrey Kaplan
Public Relations: Lisa Bucek, Gil Shif, and George Wang
Web Team: Geoff Fraizer, Blaine Whittle, and Mike Hein.
Special Guest: Mike Morhaime, President.
[LisaB.PR] Hey everyone, good to see you - we'll start the chat now - fire away

[Katricia] Hiyas all ... Good to see you all here this afternoon

[LisaB.PR] Question - if a group of people enter an instanced dungeon, how does a new player join that group or enter their dungeon?

[Katricia] Basically the group can invite that player into their party and when the player enters the instance they will automatically be in the same instance as that party.


[LisaB.PR] Question - what sort of information is the map going to display?


[Katricia] Which map are you referring to .. mini or world?
[Katricia] Well, lets go with the mini first ....
[Katricia] The mini map will show various points of intrests such as towns and major cities. You will also be able to see members of your group and if they are out of range, you'll get a directional arrow so you can easily find them.
[Katricia] ... and the world map ...
[Katricia] You can see the entire world at once, half the world or zoom into particular zones which will show areas that you've already discovered.
[Katricia] You'll also be able to place a rally point on the zone map which group members will see .. this will be used for navigational purposes.


[LisaB.PR] Will I be able to place flags down on the minimap to mark locations I wish to return to later


[Katricia] You can ping the mini map to make group members aware of a particular area.
[Katricia] You will also be able to make notes on the world map including key locations to use later.

[GilS.PR] How does pathing work? In other MMOs problems have resulted from players being able to affect NPCs without retaliation and vice versa, what are the solutions to these problems in WoW? Summoning, warping, line of sight, etc?


[Katricia] We have special creature AI so they can't be exploited. Creatures know when they are being exploited and go into "evade" mode and return to their spawn point.


[LisaB.PR] Will players be able to customize their interface?


[Katricia] Yes, you can drag and resize chat windows and later on we hope to enable dragging for other windows in the game as well ...
[Katricia] For those more technical types you can completely customize and change the interface using XML and Lua scripting ...
[Katricia] we expect users to create custom interfaces for PvP, tradeskilling, guild skins, specific classes etc.

[GilS.PR] how many trade skills can a player master on an individual character?


[Katricia] A player will have to pick and choose as they will not have the skill points to take everything. Skills can be "untrained" though, so there's no worry with picking the wrong one and being stuck with it.


[GilS.PR] EVERYBODY: You can just type your questions into the channel. We'll get to as many as we can. Don't worry, we can see 'em even though you can't ;)


[GilS.PR] How will the trading interface work?


[Katricia] You must be side-by-side. The interface is designed to be as secure as possible ....
[Katricia] A similar interface is used to provide a secure system for enchanting and unlocking boxes etc.
[Katricia] This is cool because in other games you actually have to hand over your items to the enchanter, who may not be honest ...
[Katricia] in WoW, the enchanter never has physical possession of your item

[GilS.PR] Can you give any comparisions, or lack of, between the drop system in World of Warcraft and Diablo 2?


[Katricia] Like D2, WoW supports a form of random item generation.
[Katricia] Unique items can be created by the system such as "Sword of Lifestealing" or "Breastplate of Stamina" ...
[Katricia] We take the base item like the sword and the system randomly combines it with a modifier such as lifestealing


[GilS.PR] We've seen from an older screenshot that the Dark Portal has been rebuilt (after having been destroyed in War2 expansion). Can you give us any background on why it's back or what role it'll play in the game?


[Katricia] The foundation of the dark portal was never destroyed even though the connection of the worlds was severed ...
[Katricia] and while it is no longer to open, there is legend of a ritual contained within Medivh's spellbook
[Katricia] which might one day allow powerful Warlocks to open the portal.


[GilS.PR] What happens when a player fails to complete a quest? Will there be an option to try that quest again?


[Katricia] Yes, players can always go back to the quest giver and try again.

[GilS.PR] Can you tell us more details about group spells and/or rituals?


[Katricia] The Warlock has the ritual of summoning. With three people in a group, the Warlock will cast a portal that two others must touch that will summon a distant party member to that location.


[GilS.PR] Will it be possible to journey into Outland (or if not for the initial release, is this planned for later)?


[Katricia] Ahhh .. we've got to keep some secrets


[GilS.PR] Will there be class-related quests that take you to enemy towns and/or cities? (For example, can a rogue get to sneak in, steal stuff, and sneak out for a quest?)


[Katricia] Yes, there are quests in the game that take you into enemy towns.

[GilS.PR] Will the quests progress the Warcraft storyline, and can we expect to see this storyline drastically affect the Warcraft game world as time progresses?


[Katricia] We have a story planned over the next few years which affects the world in dramatic ways.


[GilS.PR] For people who have friends that want to play together from the start, but play different races, is it going to be easy and/or quick to start playing with your friend as soon as possible?


[Katricia] For some races it's easier than others ...
[Katricia] For example, the humans and dwarves have easy transit between their two cities while the night elves are in a distant land.


[GilS.PR] Will there be a variety of fish to catch while fishing? Will there be special items, treasure chests, or SOS bottles that are able to be fished up?


[Katricia] Yes .. we're even planning on having seasonal fish -- and they can tie into quests and other tradeskills.
[Katricia] You can also fish up things like lock boxes, unique armors and other things


[GilS.PR] How will players use mounts? Will they be available through a summonable skill, or merchant (ie stables). How long will they last and are there different levels for mounts?


[Katricia] Mounts become available to each race at a high level. We also have other specialty mounts ... Warlocks for example can summon a night mare. Mounts can be "called" when needed by the owner.


[GilS.PR] Will Hunters who train in bows and rifles always be better than say a Warrior who has trained to the same level of said weapons?


[Katricia] They will very likely be very similar in skills, however; the hunters will have additional abilities with those weapons that are unique to the class. This will ultimately make them more powerful with ranged weapons.


[GilS.PR] Will there be "named" or "unique" monsters in the World of Warcraft? If so, will they appear randomly or will they only spawn under certain circumstances?


[Katricia] Yes there are many unique monsters in WoW. Some will appear randomly while others will only spawn when certain conditions have been met.


[GilS.PR] Will items crafted in WoW be more useful to other players than crafted items typically are in other RPGs?


[Katricia] Throughout your career as a crafter, there will always be items which you can create that will be the best items a player can use at that level...
[Katricia] For example, at level 40 the best bracer might come from a blacksmith while at level 45, the best bracer might be from a quest.
[Katricia] There are also a number of consumable items that can be created such as armor patches and sharpening stones.
[Katricia] Tradeskillers can sell these consumable items to players who use them to improve their existing armor and items.


[GilS.PR] Will players be able to recreate the same item over and over as long as they get the right materials?


[Katricia] Yes

[GilS.PR] Will there be a follow option to have your character automatically follow your group leaders?


[Katricia] Currently, you can follow anyone and not just the group leader.

[GilS.PR] Hey everyone, that was the last question. However, we have a special announcement for you, so hold on a sec', and I'll turn it back over to Katricia.


[Katricia] Just wanted to thank you all for coming today and wanted to let yas know that all of the sites in the Fansite Program have automatically been entered into our beta program ...
[Katricia] this includes international fan sites.
[Katricia] Also, we will be handing out additional beta accounts to fan sites to use for contests ... (more on this at a later time).
[Katricia] Thanks again for joining us .. yas all have a great night


[GilS.PR] Thanks everybody. Katricia has left the building ;) See you next time.
	
	










 	
	
Raal's Community Chat With Katricia
Posted on 03/25/04 by Loren_3000


[16:16] <Kirel> hi kat
[16:16] <Raal> lol
[16:16] <Katricia> Hi Kat
[16:16] <Kheldon|Stratics> Hello Katricia
[16:16] <Aorn> Would be cool intros to quests
[16:16] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> hey Kat =)
[16:16] <Aorn> Hi
[16:16] <zeeg> hi kat?
[16:16] <zeeg> is it really?
[16:16] <zeeg> hey kat
[16:16] <Avina> ;)
[16:16] <zeeg> http://zeeg.sieged.net/pwned.swf
[16:16] <zeeg> is that you?
[16:16] <zeeg>
[16:16] <Raal> yes leme say some thing quick to the channel
[16:16] <Katricia> Yap yap
[16:16] <Aorn> zeeg
[16:16] <Faeranicus> Zeeg, no links.
[16:16] <zeeg> pfft
[16:17] <Raal> its ok faer
[16:17] <Raal> only bad links
[16:17] <Aorn> You knew that from the start
[16:17] <zeeg> it's my only question!
[16:17] <Aorn> Hmm where did we take off from?
[16:17] <Raal> ok guys, if you could please don't post 10 psots per second (Some people were complaining ) so lets try to keep it in big posts
[16:17] <Raal> lets get on with this
[16:17] <GhouL-> phew
[16:18] <Zionstorm> Raal pwn us all
[16:18] <Kaikulux> does anyone know whether the nightmare mount would be a different size for different races? such as a gnome summoned nightmare being smaller than an orc summoned nightmare?
[16:18] <Kredit> hiya Kat
[16:18] <Xorastiz> So Kat, ya figured out IRC without trouble it seems?
[16:18] <crobi> Is there a possibility we will see musical instruments like bongo drums for Trolls, having similar effects to the Ministrel in DAoC, like pulse auras or DD-spells? That would add to the coolness factor of the troll shaman
[16:18] <master`> putting aside the graphics issues between WoW and EQ2, don't you think eq2 has an advantage being as there is much more diversity with race/class than WoW
[16:18] <Raal> it looks like the horse kinda
[16:18] <Raal> master
[16:18] <GhouL-> lol raal, didnt work, now its 10 long posts be second
[16:18] <Raal> its not about quanity
[16:18] <Raal> its about quality
[16:18] <zeeg> Raal
[16:18] <zeeg> have them message ops questions or somethin
[16:18] <Raal> who
[16:18] <x[ninjax]> true raal
[16:19] <Craftstar> I want to know what the fastest method of leveling is =) Hardcore hunting vs/ questing
[16:19] <Aeduin> so, it's a Q&A now?
[16:19] <Craftstar> no
[16:19] <Raal> nooo
[16:19] <Craftstar> discussion
[16:19] <Aeduin> didn't think so
[16:19] <x[ninjax]> to be honest i dont know much about WoW other than what my roomies tell me, so if i say or ask something really retarded cut me some noobie slack
[16:19] <Craftstar> Lets talk about leveling
[16:19] <Raal> kat just wanted to come along, unless she wants to, lets just discuss
[16:19] <Aeduin> just seemed that everyone started asking question directed at Kat.
[16:19] <Raal> yea, thats what i was afraid of lol
[16:19] <Kloxx> Craftstar, now thats what i call a good question =)
[16:19] <Kaikulux> nah, mine was directed to anyone
[16:19] <Raal> lol
[16:20] <x[ninjax]> will leveling be a direct affect from combat or will there be other ways to level up?
[16:20] <x[ninjax]> so in just hitting a tree with a sword?
[16:20] <Kaikulux> questing
[16:20] <Zionstorm> quest
[16:20] <Raal> new topic u guys think?
[16:20] <Faeranicus> If we could refrain from pelting Kat with questions, let's continue with the topics.
[16:20] <Raal> yes
[16:20] <Kredit> aye
[16:20] <GhouL-> Kat, Marry me! we can have a WoW marriage, your undead priest and my undead rogue its foolproof, we will be good together
[16:20] <x[ninjax]> whats topic
[16:20] <Raal> lets not message katricia
[16:20] <Zionstorm> but...I really think that was a problem in AC2
[16:20] <Katricia> x[nin]Tons of quests in WoW
[16:20] <Aorn> Questing will be a very reliabled way to level your hero
[16:20] <Arkangel-LGT> What you guys think about the grouping quests and opportunity to make really War-Like combats?? ^^
[16:20] <Zionstorm> the quest gave so much Xp
[16:20] <Aorn> And to get unique weapons and guold
[16:20] <Raal> lol
[16:20] <zeeg> i cant keep up
[16:20] <zeeg> im giving up
[16:20] <zeeg> too much talk lol
[16:20] <Katricia> GhouL .. sorry but my hubby is an Undead Rogue .. already married ;)
[16:20] <Craftstar> questing may be a WAY to level your hero, but I'll bet you can still get expereience faster from grinding
[16:20] <Raal> o yea guys i forgot
[16:21] <Raal> if we get a netsplit stay calm!
[16:21] <zeeg> haha that worked
[16:21] <Aorn> Arkangel-LGT I think it was about time that someone introduced Group Quests, a lot of MMORPG's has been missing this feature
[16:21] <GhouL-> awww but i asked you 4 months ago
[16:21] <zeeg> "kat is in #blizzardguilds"
[16:21] <zeeg> and people join
[16:21] <CSR> where the trivia
[16:21] <x[ninjax]> if we netsplit im gonna freak out
[16:21] <zeeg> watch, more will follow! =)
[16:21] <Raal> trivia is for later
[16:21] <zeeg> are there not group quests?
[16:21] <Raal> ok
[16:21] <CSR> ok
[16:21] <Katricia> Okay .. I have a question ..
[16:21] <Raal> okay
[16:21] <Faeranicus> Ask away
[16:21] <cores> ^^
[16:21] <Odin1> im with ninja
[16:21] <Zarach>
[16:21] <Raal> kat btw if you want me to i can put channel under moderation if u got any thing to say
[16:21] <Kredit> ...
[16:21] <Necro-> raal atleast voice me
[16:22] <Raal> i only am voicing fan site members
[16:22] <Xaviar> aha! the tables are turned.. we are answering the questions o.O ;)
[16:22] <Katricia> As you all know .. each race has a mount (some unannounced yet) .. and that Warlocks also get a special "Nightmare" .. does anyone know what other class gets a special mount and what it's called?
[16:22] <GhouL-> like me?
[16:22] <GhouL-> im a guild site member
[16:22] <zeeg> lol
[16:22] <Raal> druid
[16:22] <Raal> and crow
[16:22] <Frostbite> shaman and it's the boar?
[16:22] <Raal> bear
[16:22] <zeeg> whast the nightmare?
[16:22] <Raal> panther
[16:22] <Raal> lol
[16:22] <Craftstar> I know Rogues can dash (run fast)
[16:22] <Faeranicus> Druid's can shapeshift...
[16:22] <Kaikulux> my first guess would be a hunter riding his/her pet O.o
[16:22] <zeeg> maybe i should read stuff about wow
[16:22] <Raal> that';d be interesting
[16:22] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> my guess is....
[16:22] <zeeg> im so out of place here ;p
[16:22] <Raal> but there'd be so many mounts
[16:22] <Kredit> shaman wolf?
[16:22] <Craftstar> Hunters riding pets owuld be amazing
[16:22] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> hm.......i think the mage, just because i'm gunna be one ^_^
[16:22] <Raal> mage is more of spell dmg
[16:23] <Aorn> Orc riding Kodos ?
[16:23] <Xorastiz> Mage's can teleport..
[16:23] <Raal> class aorn
[16:23] <Avina> the mage and it is a unicorn?
[16:23] <Raal> not race
[16:23] <Kaikulux> ah! i hope mages can ride water elementals! ^^
[16:23] <x[ninjax]> are we gonna get a topic or are we all just gonna pelt them with random questions?
[16:23] <Necro-> i'd wanna ride a kodos
[16:23] <Raal> ok
[16:23] <Raal> i know it
[16:23] <x[ninjax]> give us a topic
[16:23] <Raal> gnome warlock and its monkey?
[16:23] <CSR> cant druids summon a water pet to ride?
[16:23] <Katricia> Get your pens ready to write this down .. because it's new information
[16:23] <Kirel> haha
[16:23] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> so are you gunna tell us Kat, or just leave us wondering? =)
[16:23] <Raal> lol
[16:23] <Kaikulux> cool!
[16:23] <Craftstar> oohhhh
[16:23] <Xorastiz> moderate
[16:23] <Kredit> woot
[16:23] <Kaikulux>
[16:23] <Zionstorm> OMG..writing lol
[16:23] <Xorastiz> dont let them talk
[16:23] <zeeg> new info?
[16:23] <zeeg> everythings new to me!
[16:23] <Aeduin> +m plz
[16:23] <Faeranicus> Watch the spawn guys.
[16:23] <Zionstorm> +m
[16:23] <Faeranicus> spam*
[16:23] <Katricia> The Paladin will have a high level quest to get his Charger .. which will be his/her mount
[16:23] <Raal> guys when kat annouces new info like this, please be quite or i will do it +M
[16:23] <Kaikulux>
[16:23] <Xorastiz> awesome
[16:23] <Xaviar> cool!!
[16:23] <CSR> awesome
[16:23] <Kirel> nice
[16:23] <Zionstorm> sweet!
[16:23] <El_Cid[Pirate]> pwn
[16:23] <Mannoth> omg nice
[16:23] <Kredit> charger?
[16:23] <GhouL-> wooooooooooot
[16:23] <Xaviar> <<< very happy
[16:23] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> sweet
[16:24] <cores> what is a charger?
[16:24] <Egggolem> nice
[16:24] <Raal> can u describe the charger at all?
[16:24] <Zionstorm> now tell us wut a Charger is =)
[16:24] <Faeranicus> A mount of some sort I assume.
[16:24] <Frostbite> paladin steed tee hee
[16:24] <CSR> a special war horse?
[16:24] <zeeg> tee hee!
[16:24] <Kredit> armored horse?
[16:24] <El_Cid[Pirate]> A monkey with wings, wait for an answer.
[16:24] <GhouL-> a horse with a banana
[16:24] <Katricia> Yes, a special War Horse .. Paladin only
[16:24] <Raal>
[16:24] <Avina> just like in warcraft3
[16:24] <GhouL-> yay
[16:24] <CSR> woot i was right!
[16:24] <Avina> thats cool
[16:24] <cores> thats nice
[16:24] <Zionstorm> nice
[16:24] <Raal> thats very nice
[16:25] <Egggolem> ya thats nice
[16:25] <Faeranicus> More the reason to play a Paladin!
[16:25] <Katricia> I haven't seen one, so that's the best description I can give at this point in time
[16:25] <cores> like the knights in wc3?
[16:25] <Raal> thanks alot
[16:25] <zeeg> hrmm
[16:25] <zeeg> oh, that'd be neat
[16:25] <cores> ok
[16:25] <zeeg> ok, so theres race and class specific mounts?
[16:25] <Faeranicus> We appreciate the information nonetheless.
[16:25] <Kirel> thanks for the info kat
[16:25] <Egggolem> but it seems unfair to horde player cause they dont have a special-class-mount
[16:25] <Egggolem> for shaman
[16:25] <Arkangel-LGT> Raal can we still ask a question?
[16:25] <CSR> shaman
[16:25] <zeeg> Arkangel-LGT, go ahead
[16:25] <Craftstar> This makes a person who plays warrior want to be a paladin instread
[16:25] <Zionstorm> Hmm...How will mounts be brought up? Summon?
[16:25] <Solo^bbl> :O
[16:25] <CSR> summon wolf ability?
[16:25] <Faeranicus> They most likely will, to compensate for Paladin mounts.
[16:25] <Craftstar> I'm still a rogue at heart
[16:25] <Solo^bbl> <3 kat
[16:25] <Frostbite> well you do need to offset the fear of being a buff slave for people interested in paladins
[16:26] <Raal> ok guys how about we switch a topic ok?
[16:26] <Necro-> im a warlock
[16:26] <Necro-> a gnome one
[16:26] <zeeg> hunter for me, i played ranger in uo forever
[16:26] <Kaikulux> shamen can transform into a wolf
[16:26] <Kredit> Will the Warlock/Paladin special class mount be obtained the same way as racial mounts???
[16:26] <Raal> new Topic: What class/race do you think you plan on being and why?
[16:26] <Arkangel-LGT> Raal, what about group quests and group fights?
[16:26] <cores> what about underwatermounts?
[16:26] <x[ninjax]> will there be any hidden characters ie. starcraft?
[16:26] <zeeg> she said quest thinger
[16:26] <zeeg> i think
[16:26] <Katricia> Eggo, good point ... while I don't know if this will be offset with a Horde Class specific mount, I do know that they are intending to balance out the factions, I'll be sure to bring it to someone's attention just in case it's been missed
[16:26] <Odin1> yeah zerg pwn
[16:26] <Odin1> or a zealot
[16:26] <x[ninjax]> will there be any hidden characters ie. starcraft?
[16:26] <Aorn> Cores the Druid can transform itself into a underwater mount moving faster and getting underwater breathing
[16:26] <Odin1> or a siege tnak
[16:27] <Raal> group fights is one of the topics after this
[16:27] <crobi> night elf/hunter untill i read the poll saying its the most popular class
[16:27] <Arkangel-LGT> Ok ^^
[16:27] <cores> i know but thats not a mount
[16:27] <Zionstorm> Dwarf-Warrior
[16:27] <Xorastiz> Mage here.. teleporting plus magic ranged damage = win
[16:27] <Gwoharic> Tauren/Shaman just sounds like a fun mix..
[16:27] <Raal> i thinking a human because night elfs seem to overpopulated
[16:27] <Katricia> Kredit, Warlock/Paladin mounts will be quested for ... normal mounts will be bought and skilled for
[16:27] <Necro-> gnome!!
[16:27] <Xorastiz> Gnome Mage that is
[16:27] <zeeg> i just wanna be hunter, probably troll tho
[16:27] <Kredit> ty kat
[16:27] <zeeg> since human wasn't a choice
[16:27] <Aeduin> I was planning to do a Human mage, but the dwarves are getting interesting... Dwarf Hunter perhaps.
[16:27] <GhouL-> Kat, you own
[16:27] <Raal> gnome mage would be interesting
[16:27] <Frostbite> Undead Mage... yay for the only horde race that can use magecraft. That and the starting environment looks like the easiest on the eyeballs.
[16:27] <x[ninjax]> will there be any hidden characters ie. starcraft?
[16:27] <Arkangel-LGT> I really want to try playing an Undead Priest... Some kind of Necromancian I guess?
[16:27] <Mannoth> dwarfen pawnage^^ dwarfen hunter/because of pets
[16:27] <Martesk> Most likely a human rogue, been one since EQ and this looks like their best incarnation yet.
[16:27] <Zionstorm> Kat, Can I ask why we can't jump off a Air Taxi? and what will happen if you LD while on one?
[16:28] <Xaviar> Dwarven Paladin - cause i love the fight for the light thing
[16:28] <Xorastiz> Little guy nuking you out of nowhere, hehe
[16:28] <zeeg> Zionstorm, im sure if you LD you'll end up at the end ot the ride
[16:28] <Kredit> Undead Mage will be in high demand I know for a fact
[16:28] <El_Cid[Pirate]> Tauren are big, thus, strong. Big and strong is my kinda race.
[16:28] <CSR> grab a sword and fight the horde is my motto
[16:28] <Raal> tauren look pretty interesting
[16:28] <x[ninjax]> will there be any hidden characters ie. starcraft? ?
[16:28] <Faeranicus> Zionstorm. Let's compare to a life-like situation. When you buy plane tickets, do you ask the pilots if you can jump out? Heheheh
[16:28] <zeeg> oh Katricia, last I read on forums, the real-time situation and stuff, you know about how long a boat ride/flight will take?
[16:28] <Raal> isn't horde more of a axe faction than sword
[16:28] <GhouL-> Undead Rogue, i have always been undead, and all i play is undead on wc3, also every rpg i play i usually am the stealthy character, and in WoW this is the rogue
[16:28] <Aeduin> Katricia, any chance we could have another fishing anecdote?
[16:28] <Xaviar> yeah raal.. well in wc3 it was..
[16:28] <Katricia> Zion, jumping off would kill you .. as for LD, I don't honestly have an answer although I suspect when you log back in you'll still be in the air flying
[16:28] <Zionstorm> What everyone dob't do that Faer?
[16:28] <Zionstorm> ...
[16:28] <Craftstar> I wouldn't say horde is more axe than sword. Look at blademasters
[16:29] <Kirel> i agree with you Ghoul: undead rock
[16:29] <Arkangel-LGT> Faer! Why not?
[16:29] <GhouL-> yesh
[16:29] <Raal> true
[16:29] <Raal> one rason i wana be a orc is because hero class=blade master
[16:29] <GhouL-> they also get the best bonus's
[16:29] <GhouL-> so far
[16:29] <Kirel> yeah
[16:29] <Craftstar> If there are heroes
[16:29] <Raal> true
[16:29] <Zionstorm> Hmm..Well compared to DAoC I remember you would fall of the horse in the place you LD...So i was just thinking
[16:29] <Zionstorm> Hmm
[16:29] <MetalJaden> Kat, sup After you get level 60, will there be a whole bunch of super-duper hard equipment to gain that can still make your character much stronger? Lots of 60 requirment armor/swords that take super hard quests?
[16:29] <El_Cid[Pirate]> What if a Tauren becomes a spiritwalker? Is he then still vulnerable to attacks? :0~
[16:29] <Kaikulux> i wonder if dwarven paladins ride the charger also?
[16:29] <Zarach> will there be accesoires for mounts?
[16:30] <Aorn> Craftstar: One Hero class wielding a Sword isn't much when the rest of the orc is wielding Claws/Spears of Axes
[16:30] <zeeg> MetalJaden, hope so =)
[16:30] <MetalJaden> me too
[16:30] <Egggolem> ya me2
[16:30] <zeeg> what's a hero class?
[16:30] <Kredit> I would assume
[16:30] <GhouL-> Raal, you doing hero discussion?
[16:30] <Katricia> Zion, I doubt they will do that in WoW as some of the places you will fly over will be way over your level .. or even over the ocean ect.
[16:30] <Raal> hmm
[16:30] <zeeg> hero class = players?
[16:30] <Aorn> El_Cid, I'd think he would have reduced damage versus melee/non magic but taking extra damage for magic
[16:30] <Zionstorm> Well thats good..b/c that use to really piss me off =)
[16:30] <Raal> okay faer lets change topic
[16:30] <Raal> we are getting off
[16:30] <Craftstar> Hero class is a mystery, surrounded by rumour and enigma
[16:30] <El_Cid[Pirate]> That's understandable.
[16:30] <Raal> shh crafster
[16:30] <Raal> faer
[16:30] <Raal> there
[16:30] <Raal> ok guys
[16:31] <zeeg> i gotta question >X
[16:31] <Raal> switchin gears to Hero Classes, what do you think they are? any thoughts on what they should be physical and skill wise changes
[16:31] <Raal> okay faer
[16:31] <Katricia> MJ, that's the plan and much more although we are still working on high level content. The game has been created from the ground up .. meaning that they started working on lvl 1 stuff and progressed in that way ... so lvl 60 content is still being developed.
[16:31] <zeeg> Katricia, do you know about the boat rides/flight times, how long they will actually take since its real-time?
[16:31] <zeeg> (if they're implented yet, maybe)
[16:31] <Kirel> probably depends on the length zeeg
[16:31] <Raal> odd
[16:31] <Raal> any 1 have thoughts on hero classes
[16:31] <Xorastiz> no
[16:31] <Xaviar> lol
[16:31] <zeeg> whats a hero class?!
[16:32] <Xorastiz> we don't know enough
[16:32] <Avina> i think troll-shamans = spirithunter
[16:32] <zeeg> >X
[16:32] <Kredit> not really
[16:32] <GhouL-> well, i would like to see an undead hunter = Dark Ranger, and acquiring the dark arrow, silence, life steal and charm (which hunter already has)
[16:32] <Avina> orc-shamans = farseer
[16:32] <shirow> i hope there's no demon hunter hero class or we'll see a billion of 'em ;p
[16:32] <Katricia> Zeeg, the amount of time depends on the trip. I've taken flights that have lasted seconds and then some that have lasted a minute or two .. it all depends on your origin and destination
[16:32] <Faeranicus> What does everyone think you will need to make a hero class?
[16:32] <Xaviar> i have a question.. what would be the hero class for a paladin?
[16:32] <Avina> tauren-shamans may be spiritwalker
[16:32] <zeeg> ok, but its only minutes then =)
[16:32] <Xaviar> ;)
[16:32] <zeeg> good
[16:32] <Odin1> so if i take a boat ride im gonna have to let my game sit there for hours?
[16:32] <Martesk> Hero classes are a bad idea. Just look at DAoC's master levels and EQ's Alternate Advancement. It just creates a mess.
[16:32] <crobi> i'd like to have at least two heros per class/race to get additional customization of your character
[16:32] <Zionstorm> Well I hope...They have special hero titles etc
[16:32] <Faeranicus> Example : Dwarf Warrior could be Mountain King
[16:32] <Raal> i think blade master is going to be a orc rogue
[16:32] <zeeg> Odin1, she just answered that
[16:32] <Craftstar> Hero classes are an awesome idea!
[16:32] <Aorn> GhouL- Unfortunatly no Undead Hunters
[16:32] <Raal> yea
[16:32] <Kaikulux> probably an epic quest, if they will be in
[16:32] <GhouL-> i know
[16:32] <Craftstar> I really hope they get in
[16:32] <Raal> yea a huge quest
[16:32] <Craftstar> if not right away, eventually
[16:32] <GhouL-> but i would like to see an undead hunter
[16:32] <Raal> i mean i don't wana hit 40 and get a window
[16:32] <PanG-> Can the warlock summon mount to his friend?
[16:32] <Aorn> Yeah I would as well
[16:32] <Raal> thats a good question
[16:32] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> Has Blizzard developed any of the Hero Classes yet?
[16:33] <El_Cid[Pirate]> Heros make it worth it
[16:33] <uL_Dan> i <3 Heros
[16:33] <Raal> man this has turned into a asking kat quesiton spree >_<
[16:33] <x[ninjax]> can i be an alcolyte?
[16:33] <Craftstar> Meh
[16:33] <shirow> alcoholic?
[16:33] <Katricia> Pan, no .. the mount will be soul linked with his master and wouldn't lower itself to allow another on it's back
[16:33] <Cloudchaser> Katricia, you've recently said that attacking will not be possible on mounts to prevent kiting and the likes. How will this be attributed to the Tauren planestriding ability, will there be a cooldown for each use, not being able to perform any action while it is active etc.?
[16:33] <El_Cid[Pirate]> A prestige level more I suppose.
[16:33] <Xorastiz> so the quested mounts are clickable items, skills, spells?
[16:33] <Faeranicus> Please guys, lets refrain from asking questions and start discussing more, this isn't a Q&A ya know
[16:34] <x[lonewolf]> Poor Kat is getting bombarded
[16:34] <Frostbite> I wonder if the hero classes appear different as far as the player graphics go. White spirit walker tauren and demon hunters with bandaged eyes etc.
[16:34] <cores> what if tons of people want to fly at the same time? wont there be masses of gryphons in ironforge and the other cities?
[16:34] <Xaviar> i presume you cannot attack while plains striding is active
[16:34] <Kirel> ninjax: you want a buildig summoning quest for your acolyte? ;)
[16:34] <GhouL-> lol
[16:34] <x[lonewolf]> Dude that woudl be sweet ^^^
[16:34] <Xaviar> lol
[16:34] <Kirel> go here and summon a zig
[16:34] <x[ninjax]> no kirel, but alcolytes are awesome
[16:34] <MetalJaden> How far can bows shoot?
[16:34] <zeeg> lolol
[16:34] <GhouL-> undead must hire acolytes to build player houses in lordaeron
[16:34] <GhouL-> lol
[16:34] <zeeg> Oh oh, Katricia is it official there will be player housing?
[16:34] <x[ninjax]> i have a super secret alcolyte rush that owns people in wc3
[16:34] <Aorn> Let's not get off topic here
[16:34] <zeeg> (I dont read forums etc.)
[16:34] <x[ninjax]> so i love alcolytes
[16:34] <GhouL-> no zeeg
[16:34] <GhouL-> its expansion
[16:34] <Kirel> ah i see
[16:35] <Faeranicus> Nope! No housing *dances*
[16:35] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> acolyte rushes in wc3 are so much fun ^_^
[16:35] <zeeg> as long as there's player housing somewhere
[16:35] <Raal> lol
[16:35] <Odin1> right on
[16:35] <Raal> sigh
[16:35] <zeeg> i want to own a house >X
[16:35] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> i've actually won using them
[16:35] <GhouL-> same
[16:35] <El_Cid[Pirate]> I wonder if buildings just pop-up, or get built by peasants etc.
[16:35] <zeeg> things actually build in wow?
[16:35] <InWoW|Silver> yes, I want my castle *g*
[16:35] <Xorastiz> stuff can be released after release..
[16:35] <Kredit> rather have guild than personal houses imho
[16:35] <x[ninjax]> can you build your own houses ie eq?
[16:35] <Faeranicus> If housing was implemented, maybe you would need to wait a 2-week waiting period while your house was built!
[16:35] <shirow> what about after stuff has been released after released?
[16:35] <zeeg> eq has houses?
[16:35] <Raal> housing would be pretty nice
[16:35] <shirow> can more stuff be released
[16:35] <zeeg> i didnt think so...
[16:35] <Xaviar> guild halls would be good
[16:35] <x[ninjax]> no
[16:35] <Kaikulux> that would be a neat idea
[16:35] <x[ninjax]> im a dork
[16:36] <x[ninjax]> so what about housing?
[16:36] <x[lonewolf]> Anyone know if there are going to be invasions, continent wars...etc
[16:36] <Raal> i am hoping guild wars are eventualy being put in like castle seiges and stuff
[16:36] <zeeg> uo was the main one
[16:36] <GhouL-> lol raal, i started a discussion
[16:36] <Kaikulux> or mortgages in WoW ~
[16:36] <GhouL-> lol
[16:36] <MetalJaden> Ya know what should be in the expansion... Panderan. Yeah!
[16:36] <x[ninjax]> could you build a place for yourself
[16:36] <Raal> town raids
[16:36] <zeeg> Raal, lineage 2 ;p
[16:36] <Bacardi[1G]> any word on gnome mounts? =]
[16:36] <Zionstorm> Player Housing=the gud
[16:36] <Odin1> ohh mansions
[16:36] <PanG-> When we summon a portal.. can anyone enter in and get teleported ?
[16:36] <Raal> i dislike lineage2
[16:36] <x[lonewolf]> Anyone know if there are going to be invasions, continent wars...etc
[16:36] <Raal> not enough content
[16:36] <crobi> i like the lineage idea where you have to "level up" your guild to get a house
[16:36] <Mannoth> what about building your own shops/pubs? Would be kinda nice I guess =)
[16:36] <Xorastiz> I doubt ANYONE could just go in your portal
[16:36] <MetalJaden> lineage two is.... bad.
[16:36] <zeeg> i like the idea of raising a pet dragon tho from egg to winged =)
[16:36] <Arkangel-LGT> What would be is some kind of Fotress-Like system... Like, you're in guild and you just rushed a fortress.. it was undead before and not it's human, the fortress gives bonuses for all humans and extra gold for you guild's fund ^^
[16:36] <Kaikulux> pang - i believe certain mage/warlock rituals are capable of transporting other players in your group
[16:36] <Zionstorm> Kinda like DAoC Arkangel?
[16:37] <Arkangel-LGT> Never played DAoC!
[16:37] <Xorastiz> Why don't we discuss tradeskills? ;)
[16:37] <x[ninjax]> they should have constant battles going on, like the custom games DoTA and Tri Wars
[16:37] <MetalJaden> Lineage 2 has REALLY boring environments, glitchy graphics and an annoying leveling system. And everyone looks the same.
[16:37] <x[ninjax]> and the player controlled units are the heros in it
[16:37] <x[lonewolf]> Seriously
[16:37] <Odin1> yeah
[16:37] <El_Cid[Pirate]> Houses and cities should also be able to be burnt down to the ground. Make raids and attacks realistic.
[16:37] <El_Cid[Pirate]> And keeps the housing limited :X
[16:38] <Raal> okay then
[16:38] <Katricia> was picking flowers all around Ironforge earlier today with her lil' Gnome Warlock
[16:38] <Raal> lol
[16:38] <Avina>
[16:38] <Raal> thanks for that t
[16:38] <Kirel> haha
[16:38] <Raal> ok one thing guys
[16:38] <Aorn> Katricia Thanks for your very useful comment ^^
[16:38] <Raal> kats being nice and anwsering some questions here and there which is very nice of her
[16:38] <Raal> but lets try not to spam questions okay?
[16:38] <Raal> and when we are on a topic, lets try to stay on that topic
[16:39] <Raal> topic is town raids
[16:39] <rnc`greatscott`mp`out> what time is the chat?
[16:39] <Odin1> pillaging would be sweet
[16:39] <Zionstorm> Would love to be able to burn towns
[16:39] <GhouL-> good, but only to small towns
[16:39] <MAD-Ataris> hello all
[16:39] <Raal> chats already started
[16:39] <Kirel> problem with town raids is that they can affect the overall storyline
[16:39] <Raal> true
[16:39] <Raal> not relaly
[16:39] <Zionstorm> Kill the Shop keeper! Burn the Building!
[16:39] <GhouL-> not if they are small towns
[16:39] <Raal> like unknown towns that can be taken over
[16:39] <Aorn> Did you know you can set your background to your favorite Warcraft Wallpaper by: Rightclicking -> Background -> Select and then go find your own WoW Wallpaper 8)
[16:39] <GhouL-> yeah
[16:39] <Raal> i wounder how it will be taken over.. a certin guy they gota kill?
[16:39] <El_Cid[Pirate]> But aren't we there to do that? :>~
[16:39] <Kirel> on a small scale, yes
[16:39] <Raal> can make it hard to see text if they pick a bad one aorn
[16:39] <Cloudchaser> Haven't they already said there will be neutral outposts the factions can fight for control over
[16:40] <ignore> I think so
[16:40] <Xorastiz> take over by killing everything..
[16:40] <Aorn> Raal, mine is fine, a Shadowhunter Concept art, all black background and white text
[16:40] <ignore> hehe
[16:40] <Kredit> i could see the horde taking over an alliance town then once it is taken over, the town spawns horde NPCs
[16:40] <Kirel> but you don't want to have large towns switching too often, or the core essence of the race's homeland goes bye bye
[16:40] <Seraph-AFK> what would be good if towns had guars and town halls. And u have to kill all guards and the mayour to get it
[16:40] <x[lonewolf]> are there going to be alot of creeps to kill?
[16:40] <Zionstorm> nayve guards in the outpost?
[16:40] <x[ninjax]> will there be stationary cannons to fire?
[16:40] <Zionstorm> maybe*
[16:40] <Bacardi[1G]> you can make it possible for outlying small towns to be able to be overrun, but GMs can decide if one faction has too much control over an area and initiate some sort of crusade
[16:40] <Odin1> will there be canoes for rent?
[16:40] <Cloudchaser> I mean, doing a raid on any of the major cities wouldn't work..
[16:40] <Aorn> Maybe Stationary Cannons would need a Siege Weapon skill/Engineering to be used
[16:40] <GhouL-> i heard there were event quests, where the undead may raid azeroth for a day...
[16:40] <Kirel> good point bacardi
[16:40] <x[lonewolf]> yay crusade
[16:40] <clearwater> Can we fish off boats! I posted that in QA post on forums
[16:40] <El_Cid[Pirate]> Houses should also be destroyable, that would be great. Then for instance, after a Horde attack the remnescants of the alliance village that was burnt down would go and revenge themselves
[16:41] <Kirel> you have to moderate it somewhat
[16:41] <ignore> one of the screenshots show a wall with a ballista next to it
[16:41] <Zionstorm> Raids in towns will only be possible IF they add player cities
[16:41] <Raal> you guys tihnk there should be a server wide quest to take over a town? like horde gathers to take ironforge over?
[16:41] <Frostbite> I would suggest the towns be border towns and such in pvp instances
[16:41] <clearwater> Do Trolls do backflips while idle?
[16:41] <Avina> i think raids should be in the pvp-zones only
[16:41] <MetalJaden> I prefer more of guild based wars than faction. Let's stay away from icky ff11 ideas. Guilds taking over towns is way better.
[16:41] <x[lonewolf]> Revenge themselves? Don't you mean avenge?
[16:41] <Cloudchaser> Yeah, that will never happen Raal
[16:41] <El_Cid[Pirate]> yeah
[16:41] <Xorastiz> I dont think something that big would be a good idea
[16:41] <El_Cid[Pirate]> i meant that
[16:41] <clearwater> Will it rain today in Sydney
[16:41] <Ariketh> I dont. Town conquering wouldn't be much fun later in the game
[16:41] <GhouL-> yes
[16:41] <Raal> thats off topic lol
[16:41] <GhouL-> clearwater, its raining now
[16:41] <Katricia> As an FYI: We're just now in the process of working with our Battlefield PvP .. and are experimenting with Seige types of weapons
[16:41] <clearwater> is it
[16:41] <GhouL-> yesh
[16:41] <clearwater> where are you lol
[16:41] <Aorn> Capital cities should never be overrun/changing factions, small outposts/towns could though
[16:41] <Kirel> unless blizz decides to write that into the overall world storyline
[16:41] <GhouL-> i live in penrith
[16:41] <x[ninjax]> ah ok kat ty
[16:41] <Kredit> nice
[16:42] <clearwater> COOL! thanks kat
[16:42] <Zionstorm> thats good
[16:42] <clearwater> because
[16:42] <clearwater> that is like
[16:42] <clearwater> crayz
[16:42] <clearwater> oh ok
[16:42] <Bacardi[1G]> I wouldnt want a huge town like ironforge to be overrun, but sieging of large towns over an item located inside and a quest to infiltrate Ironforge would be cool
[16:42] <clearwater> im in sydney
[16:42] <x[lonewolf]> So basically there will always be war, always sorrow. Never will peace roam the land....
[16:42] <Zionstorm> Yall think Siege Weapons IF they are put in game will be a tradeskill?
[16:42] <Seraph-AFK> oh , u mean so clans like 4k *(if they play wow) would have control of every town that had some significance
[16:42] <x[lonewolf]> can't we all just get along?
[16:42] <Odin1> 06N08o
[16:42] <Cloudchaser> What would the objective be in the battlefield PvP? Are some some sort of relics like in DAoC? Or just get the benefit of gaining another trade post? Or something else?
[16:42] <Odin1> die
[16:42] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> Siege weapons, rad =)
[16:42] <Frostbite> if cities were overun it would mean some quests would be cut off
[16:42] <ignore> siege weapon construction=tradeskill?
[16:42] <Ariketh> I hope it isn't. That would be too powerful.
[16:42] <clearwater> with the /me thingo
[16:42] <Katricia> sure ;p
[16:42] <Aeduin> wow
[16:42] <clearwater> thanks
[16:42] <clearwater> = )
[16:43] <InWoW|Silver> is easier to extract yours infos ^^
[16:43] <GhouL-> frostbite, it means that you must fight to get the city back so you can do the quest
[16:43] <Xorastiz> the quests in the PVP areas will have better rewards I remember reading.. that still true?
[16:43] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> i wanna send some gnomes flying in a ballista ^_^
[16:43] <x[ninjax]> are you all afraid of the undead? cause i would be if i were you
[16:43] <Ariketh> seige weapons wouldn't be much fun..
[16:43] <Kirel> =)
[16:43] <Martesk> I bet druids will be able to turn into Ancients to be siege weapons.
[16:43] <El_Cid[Pirate]> Not if you have tons of siege weapons.
[16:43] <Seraph-AFK> doubt it
[16:43] <El_Cid[Pirate]> What was the topic again :X
[16:43] <Frostbite> how will new people start then? The levels ones fighting for a city they never had?
[16:43] <uLAtaris> what is topic exactly arkiketh?
[16:43] <Arkangel-LGT> Raid
[16:43] <Aeduin> town raids
[16:43] <Seraph-AFK> that would be o unrealistic
[16:43] <Arkangel-LGT> Town Raids
[16:43] <Ariketh> I see tons of topics flying around the room
[16:43] <x[lonewolf]> I bet druids will be on top of the floating pile the undead are going to be using as mounts
[16:43] <GhouL-> pirate, town raids
[16:43] <Katricia> : Xora, much about the PvP system is uncertain as it's still in development ..
[16:43] <Cloudchaser> I would really like some insight what the motivation for FvF would be, there has to be more than to just "kill the opposition"
[16:44] <cores> so what about another topic? -_-
[16:44] <Xorastiz> Ah, I see
[16:44] <ignore> town raids would rock
[16:44] <clearwater> I'm all about the little details
[16:44] <clearwater> like
[16:44] <Odin1> i think you are right lone
[16:44] <Xorastiz> It would be a good incentive to go into those areas...
[16:44] <Zionstorm> True Cloud
[16:44] <x[lonewolf]> "kill the opposition", thats all I need
[16:44] <Jedi`> Out of curiosity, but how many beta applications were submitted? And, is the beta scheduled to start any time soon?
[16:44] <Kredit> Kat, recently posted on a fansite...WoW will use the RPS(rock/paper/scissor) model for PvP, can you confirm?
[16:44] <El_Cid[Pirate]> Money, riches, more land, an outpost to conquer the entire alliance in a large campaign.
[16:44] <Bacardi[1G]> Will siege weapons be player controlled? or have predetermined attack patterns via NPC or GM?
[16:44] <uL_Dan> InterFaction Grouping -_-
[16:44] <Seraph-AFK> ghoul that would be cool, pirates from the south come to attack a village to reap the treasures! and take over the town
[16:44] <clearwater> Can we shoot arrows when not in combat?
[16:44] <GhouL-> lol
[16:44] <GhouL-> yeah'
[16:44] <clearwater> At a tree or something for fun?
[16:44] <MetalJaden> lol
[16:44] <clearwater> = )
[16:44] <MetalJaden> target practice?
[16:44] <El_Cid[Pirate]> Contests a lï¿½ robin hood
[16:44] <Ari[writing]> if anyone needs me, PM or IM.
[16:44] <Egggolem> dont think so
[16:45] <clearwater> Yep
[16:45] <Egggolem> but would be funny
[16:45] <Cloudchaser> One thing which would be nice if they copied the Darkness Falls concept from DAoC, where the side who controls the most forts, or outposts in WoW, will gain access to a special high-end dungeon
[16:45] <Kaikulux> shoot arrows at players passing overhead on gryphons
[16:45] <Katricia> : Kredit it's very hard for me to talk too much about PvP due to the fact that anything I would say would have a high likelyhood of changing .. as I said earlier, it's still in development
[16:45] <Aorn> Cloudchaser didn't they have that in DAoC later on as well?
[16:45] <Zionstorm> Yup that was l33t Cloud
[16:45] <Kredit> <--understands ty kat
[16:45] <GhouL-> your invulnerable on your mount
[16:45] <clearwater> Shooting arrows answer?
[16:45] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> So is it safe to assume there won't be much PvP implemented early on in Beta?
[16:45] <clearwater> = )
[16:45] <Seraph-AFK> hey kat, is this movie any good cough* not off topic
[16:46] <clearwater> haha @ shooting at gryphons in the air
[16:46] <MetalJaden> Kat, as of now, how many hours of solid leveling does it take to get to level 20?
[16:46] <xBlitzerx> hey
[16:46] <KofA-LegacyofTorment> Or is Blizzard working to get PvP into the early stages of Beta?
[16:46] <x[lonewolf]> PvP is crucial to blizzard getting my $$
[16:46] <El_Cid[Pirate]> What about housing Kat? :>~
[16:46] <Raal> sigh
[16:46] <x[ninjax]> can the undead summon concubines for themselves?
[16:46] <Kheldon|Stratics> Blizzard already said that PvP wouldn't be in on the first stages of beta.
[16:46] <Raal> looks like its time to do this
[16:46] <ignore> yeah housing
[16:46] <Aorn> El_Cid[Pirate]
[16:46] <Katricia> : I'm not sure MJ .. I don't get very much time to play
[16:46] <Raal> hey faer
[16:46] <Raal> do what u gota do
[16:46] <Aorn> Don't get off topic
[16:46] <Raal> ok guys
[16:46] <Faeranicus> Dun dun...
[16:46] <Raal> shh every one
[16:46] <Raal> we know kats here, every ones very excited
[16:47] <Raal> its great shes here and its a honor but remember this is a discussion
[16:47] <Raal> lets try to stay on topic and if kat so happens to anwser a question while we discuss.. thats GREAT
[16:47] <Raal> but comon guys discuss, not just spam questions
[16:47] <Raal> thanks for your time and thanks for joining!
[16:47] <Raal> ok faer
[16:47] <Faeranicus> We're sorry, but it's getting really crazy here. We need to keep it as a constructive discussion, and not a Q&A. When she gives us little tidbits of info, we're happy for it.
[16:47] <clearwater> It says
[16:47] <clearwater> Oh ok
[16:48] <El_Cid[Pirate]> sry
[16:48] <Raal> hey faer u put it better than me
[16:48] <Raal>
[16:48] <Seraph-AFK> can we change the subject?
[16:48] <MetalJaden> Fine I got to answers. I'll sleep well tonight!
[16:48] <clearwater> Kat: Any more word on the train from Ironforge to Stormwind
[16:48] <x[ninjax]> then im lost, how are we supposed to discuss when you dont give us a topic or anything to go on?
[16:48] <RamenChef> hi
[16:48] <clearwater> I hope it is a consistent time table
[16:48] <GhouL-> turn based messaging
[16:48] <wowrats> Agree Raal however the Mage pet issue needs to be addressed at some point
[16:48] <clearwater> not like gryphon rides
[16:48] <x[lonewolf]> The dwarves should be able to drink firewater and get attribute points and firebreath
[16:48] <GhouL-> thats what you need
[16:48] <Faeranicus> We do give topics, but they sometimes do get lost in the spam.
[16:48] <Kredit> might be easier if topics were made for more of a discussion rather than speculation
[16:48] <Jedi`> Only thing I really want to know right now is... how many beta applications were submitted? And, is the beta scheduled to start any time soon?
[16:48] <Xorastiz> Mage pet?
[16:48] <RamenChef> hi
[16:48] <El_Cid[Pirate]> use bold
[16:48] <El_Cid[Pirate]> or underline
[16:48] <clearwater> I want people to wait for the train
[16:48] <clearwater> and ppl can interact on it
[16:48] <El_Cid[Pirate]> to undermine the topic
[16:48] <clearwater> etc
[16:48] <Raal> ok
[16:48] <x[lonewolf]> What are we discussing about?
[16:48] <Raal> faer
[16:48] <Raal> do it
[16:49] <Xaviar> yeah xora.. like water ele's etc
[16:49] <wowrats> Mages cannot have pets... however in WC3 they could summon water elementals
[16:49] <Raal> new topic
[16:49] <Raal> mages have water elementals i think >_<
[16:49] <Raal> ok guys
[16:49] <Raal> new topic, Trade Skills
[16:49] <Raal> that should be a great one!
[16:49] <RamenChef> only hunters can have pets rite?
[16:49] <x[ninjax]> what about them?
[16:49] <Xorastiz> herbs!
[16:49] <Seraph-AFK> what are the trade skills
[16:49] <x[lonewolf]> What are Trade Skills
[16:49] <wowrats> Raal according to everything I read they have NO pets... hoping Kat could comment
[16:49] <Faeranicus> Talk about your thoughts
[16:49] <MetalJaden> I'm going for blacksmithing and mining.
[16:49] <RamenChef> and warlocks have summon
[16:49] <Faeranicus> Stuff like Mining.
[16:49] <Xaviar> i wonder how many tradeskills you can take..
[16:49] <Raal> they have water elemental i am almost sure
[16:49] <Verrik> Why dont we discuss pie?
[16:49] <x[lonewolf]> What do dwarves have
[16:49] <kriskoman> are mages the only ones allowed to enchant?
[16:49] <Seraph-AFK> ive heard of them, had a look at them but not actaullay read about them
[16:49] <Raal> herbilism
[16:49] <Faeranicus> Mining, Blacksmithing, Crafting, Alchemicy!
[16:49] <Raal> mining
[16:49] <vs40fresh> wow there sure are a lot of people here tonight =)
[16:49] <Odin1> bash
[16:49] <Aorn> Herbalism would be very interesting I hope that I can harvest some of the fruityloop pandern Ales 8)
[16:49] <BlizzardGuildsJAVA> I can't see how other trade skills will be anywhere near as cool as fishing...and if they are then this game will be even better than i could have imagined
[16:49] <Jedi`> as long as the tradeskills won't give you carpal tunnel (like EQ's), i'm happy
[16:49] <El_Cid[Pirate]> i heard you can take more than one
[16:49] <Arkangel-LGT> I think Enchanting is incredible! ^^ never seen that kind of idea in any other other MMORPG i've played... should be great ^^
[16:49] <Aeduin> they said 2 was the maximum number of tradeskills one could succeed in with one character.
[16:49] <GhouL-> i thought enchant was a tradeskill?
[16:50] <Verrik> ....GAG.
[16:50] <Xorastiz> I think they said you could master 2 tradeskills
[16:50] <zeeg> no pets?
[16:50] <clearwater> I want to be a Knight somehow but as a Warrior rather than paladin
[16:50] <xBlitzerx> i know what i wanted to ask, what are some of the uniqe skills on WoW, different from the usual MMORPG ones
[16:50] <Seraph-AFK> what does enchanting do?
[16:50] <RamenChef> only2?
[16:50] <zeeg> what about hunters...
[16:50] <Aorn> Enchanting is a Tradeskill GhouL-
[16:50] <GhouL-> yes i know
[16:50] <zeeg> if hunters dont get pets, i dont wanna be a hunter..
[16:50] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> The two I've decided for sure that I'll get are Enchanting and Fishing ;)
[16:50] <kriskoman> enchanting adds effects to weapons and armor and such
[16:50] <RamenChef> enchanting upgrades ur weappons kind of
[16:50] <x[lonewolf]> if i mine can I get more gold then?
[16:50] <Xaviar> soo im probably gonna go blacksmithing and mining
[16:50] <clearwater> Hunter's get pets.
[16:50] <Seraph-AFK> ahh cool
[16:50] <Faeranicus> I personally think mine/blacksmith is going to be a rather popular tradeskill combo.
[16:50] <Aeduin> I guess mounts are kind of a tradeskill too.,
[16:50] <RamenChef> only 2 though?
[16:50] <kriskoman> like fire damage and stuff
[16:50] <Seraph-AFK> like orbs in war3?
[16:50] <Aorn> Just confirming GhouL-
[16:50] <clearwater> Fishing is the way for me
[16:50] <Kaikulux> lonewolf, you would if you traded the ore away to a player who needs it
[16:50] <GhouL-> yesh
[16:50] <kriskoman> y
[16:50] <kriskoman> ya like orbs
[16:50] <RamenChef> y only 2
[16:50] <Gwoharic> Alchemy sounds great
[16:50] <RamenChef> i wanna experiment
[16:50] <GhouL-> this is getting out of hand again
[16:50] <crobi> I'd like to see more tradeskills, otherwise everyone is gonna be the same
[16:50] <Bacardi[1G]> How exactly you think tradeskills will work? For example, will mining be something boring and tedious or will it be sort've like a minigame like fishing? =]
[16:50] <x[lonewolf]> can my quest be to just mine for hours and hours and be a mogul in the WoW world?
[16:50] <InWoW|Silver> @kat is gold useful ? or will the moneysystem collaps like as in many mmorpgs
[16:50] <Aorn> Enchating weapons/orbs/armor properly, could be a very
[16:50] <Kredit> what skill do u think best goes with enchanting if anything?
[16:50] <MetalJaden> mining and blacksmithing really is the biggest one.
[16:50] <Raal> orbs
[16:51] <Raal> hmm
[16:51] <Aeduin> Any guesses on what tradeskills Blizzard have left to announce?
[16:51] <Raal> hmm
[16:51] <Raal> good question
[16:51] <BlizzardGuildsJAVA> i thought they announced all of them
[16:51] <Zionstorm> hmm
[16:51] <Raal> wounder what new ones
[16:51] <Katricia> looks into the future .. yes, money will be useful
[16:51] <Kirel> from what blizz has said, money will be very important and useful
[16:51] <MetalJaden> I mean, fishing is cute, as with herbs, but people care more about their equipment
[16:51] <RamenChef> which ones do they have sofar?
[16:51] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> I dunno Faeranicus, KoA did a poll awhile ago about what tradeskill people would get and mining and blacksmith wasn't exactly a prime choice that most people chose (I think blacksmithing might have even been one of the least)
[16:51] <Raal> maybe a gambling tradeskill?
[16:51] <Seraph-AFK> wouldnt it be cool if there was a skill like find treasure
[16:51] <Raal> lol
[16:51] <RamenChef> lol
[16:51] <Zionstorm> lol
[16:51] <BlizzardGuildsJAVA649> lota chat here
[16:51] <Raal> i think dwarfs got that as a racial ability
[16:51] <wowrats> Kat can you post something on the Blizz forums or FAQ about Mage pets?
[16:51] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> You can look into a future?
[16:51] <Faeranicus> Heh, what -was- the prime choice?
[16:51] <clearwater> yeh
[16:51] <Kaikulux> there is - dwarf racial trait
[16:51] <kriskoman> gambling inside of taverns would own..
[16:51] <clearwater> i think so to
[16:51] <Zionstorm> Treasure Hunting!
[16:51] <x[ninjax]> so are you in fact admitting to the fact that greed will play a huge role in WoW?
[16:51] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> sweet! I wanna be able to look into the future
[16:51] <Seraph-AFK> say ur near some bushes and u hear a beep
[16:51] <Seraph-AFK> or find maps
[16:51] <x[lonewolf]> <----------------greedy
[16:51] <Frostbite> Are secondary skills like riding and languages considered tradeskills? I've only seen overt tradeskills listed on the official site and such...
[16:51] <Seraph-AFK> and locate the treasurs
[16:51] <wowrats> Hey legacy good to see ya!!!!
[16:51] <x[lonewolf]> I like shiney things
[16:51] <Raal> what will you guy's FAV tradeskill be that are currently annouced
[16:51] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> hey, I've been here awhile
[16:51] <Dubrok> @KATricia, can you tell us something about the content of the new MOVIE, or do we have to wait for another hour?
[16:51] <Xorastiz> Stop asking Kat questions directly.. they already said that
[16:52] <Faeranicus> Blacksmith!
[16:52] <Kredit> any 'secret/unlocked' tradeskills that wont be mentioned at release?
[16:52] <Raal> movie is in 2 hours
[16:52] <ionStorm> quit
[16:52] <Raal> 10 pm est
[16:52] <crobi> what about a skill to get furs or bones from animals, that kind of stuff?
[16:52] <RamenChef> 1 hr
[16:52] <Aeduin> one hour
[16:52] <GhouL-> Alchemy, Lockpick, and Enchanting
[16:52] <kane> 9est not 10
[16:52] <vs40fresh> wow katricia actually stopped bye =)
[16:52] <Avina> i think i will mix take alchemy and use the race-specific herbalism-skill from the nightelves
[16:52] <Avina> - mix
[16:52] <BlizzardGuildsJAVA> [how do you change what your known as?]
[16:52] <Bacardi[1G]> vs40!
[16:52] <Aorn> That owuld be skinning or cooking crobi
[16:52] <Egggolem> its 3 am then in europe
[16:52] <Aorn> Unheard of as yet 8/
[16:52] <vs40fresh> hello =)
[16:52] <kriskoman> rogues can apply poisen to daggers right?
[16:52] <Raal> lol
[16:52] <Aeduin> lockpicking isn't a tradeskill is it?
[16:52] <RamenChef> yea
[16:52] <Raal> vsfresh
[16:52] <MetalJaden> yes they can
[16:52] <RamenChef> yea
[16:52] <xBlitzerx> type /nick youname
[16:52] <Raal> ncie to see your awake
[16:52] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> cool...this computer is going slow lol (my other computer won't get mIRC to work for some reason)
[16:52] <kriskoman> k thanks ^^
[16:52] <Aorn> Egggolem It's actually 1:55 am here(also at Europe
[16:52] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> hey vs40
[16:52] <Katricia> : There's a new skinning tradeskill used for .. skinning animals for their hides (imagine that!)
[16:52] <RamenChef> i think ppl will experiment instead of specializin
[16:52] <GhouL-> yes, thats why i want alchemy for rogue, lockpick for rogue, and enchanting to make dagger stronger
[16:52] <BlizzardGuildsJAVA> oh awesome
[16:52] <vs40fresh> hiya
[16:53] <MetalJaden> lol
[16:53] <Aorn> Yay!
[16:53] <Zionstorm> nice
[16:53] <Aeduin> cool
[16:53] <kriskoman> do you use it on the corpse?
[16:53] <Egggolem> ya 1:54 in here ;)
[16:53] <RamenChef> cool
[16:53] <clearwater> thats cruel
[16:53] <Bacardi[1G]> sounds fun, probably goes along with fishing =]
[16:53] <Zionstorm> do they bleed?
[16:53] <kriskoman> how does that work?
[16:53] <Seraph-AFK> GMT : 0:53
[16:53] <clearwater> I will not support
[16:53] <Xorastiz> That's not exactly new info guys..
[16:53] <Zionstorm> wait off topic
[16:53] <Zionstorm> lol
[16:53] <x[lonewolf]> can you skin heroes?
[16:53] <wowrats> imagine is all we can do
[16:53] <clearwater> wearing animals
[16:53] <vs40fresh> i am playing ninja gaiden on xbox right now!
[16:53] <RamenChef> BLEED!
[16:53] <clearwater> its wrong
[16:53] <vs40fresh> it's awesome
[16:53] <Katricia> : Yap .. on the corpse
[16:53] <Jedi`> oh good, no more relying on a random drop to get good skills (damn EQ...)
[16:53] <El_Cid[Pirate]> i wonder if you can use it on other players
[16:53] <x[lonewolf]> can you skin heroes?
[16:53] <uL_Dan> No, you skin them alive... -_-
[16:53] <kriskoman> thats pwnage =p
[16:53] <Jedi`> er, good skins
[16:53] <Odin1> will there be guns for any race?
[16:53] <kriskoman> maybe i want to make bags ^^
[16:53] <x[lonewolf]> can you rip the flesh from heroes?
[16:53] <Seraph-AFK> i think a good topic would be talking about the concept and ideas of herosw
[16:53] <Dubrok> uh, 2.00 am here, and i am still awake just to get the movie, hope they don't delay it :-)
[16:53] <Frostbite> swimming, riding, languages.... are these tradeskills?
[16:53] <Kredit> take it only certain corpses can be "skinned"?
[16:53] <x[ninjax]> in your professional opinion KAT, what will be the closest character to a ninja?
[16:53] <MetalJaden> I want to kill someone in pvp and then skin them
[16:53] <Aeduin> wonder what one will do with a skin... any way to process it?
[16:53] <Kaikulux> ninja - that'd be a rouge
[16:53] <RamenChef> i think skins are used for tailorin
[16:53] <Aorn> x[lonewolf] Very unlikely
[16:53] <Katricia> I believe guns for any race .. but only for specific classes
[16:53] <GoH> what if they kill and skin you? O_o
[16:53] <zeeg> Katricia, figuring out irc i take it?
[16:54] <fudgeman> hey is kat here ?
[16:54] <Raal> lol
[16:54] <clearwater> 1pm for movie here in Aus
[16:54] <clearwater> hehe
[16:54] <BlizzardGuildsJAVA> i'm trying to figure this out too
[16:54] <RamenChef> yea
[16:54] <uL_Dan> i want to skin a tauren
[16:54] <kane> do you know if warlocks will be able to summon doom guards or not?
[16:54] <kriskoman> you can get guns on scopes right?
[16:54] <Raal> doom guards seem to powerfull
[16:54] <kriskoman> err
[16:54] <GoH> i was told they couldnt
[16:54] <RamenChef> i wanna skin arthas
[16:54] <fudgeman> hey raal ?
[16:54] <kriskoman> scopes on guns? =p
[16:54] <wowrats> 04Kat can you comment on Mage pets?
[16:54] <fudgeman> what is kats name ?
[16:54] <x[lonewolf]> ^^^^ not our discussion
[16:54] <Raal> wowrats
[16:54] <Katricia> : No
[16:54] <MetalJaden> ooooo, mounting a tauren haed over my fireplace! I like.
[16:54] <Raal> can u stay on topic?
[16:54] <Gwoharic> so much for staying on topic
[16:54] <Aeduin> let's discuss, not spam questions
[16:54] <Martesk> Frost> Secondary skills. They're all secondary skills, tradeskills just "produce" something.
[16:54] <Kaikulux> heh
[16:54] <GhouL-> kats name is donna
[16:54] <Aorn> kriskoman there has been news about things that can modify your guns, also ammo is
[16:54] <wowrats> 04Thanks anyway
[16:54] <fudgeman> hey kat !
[16:54] <Kredit> topic is TRADESKILLS
[16:54] <Kirel> well if you had a house, you could fill it with skins
[16:54] <x[lonewolf]> we are discussing tradeskills
[16:54] <zeeg> wowrats, colors are annoying
[16:54] <uL_Ataris> is there discussion among whether or not the punishment for death in pvp will be different from death in pve?
[16:54] <x[lonewolf]> Ban HIM!
[16:54] <Raal> hmm tradeskills had a good run
[16:54] <kriskoman> lol
[16:54] <Raal> i have another interesting topic some 1 suggested to me
[16:54] <Aorn> Ramen Cheef
[16:54] <kane> No about mage pets or No about warlocks and doom guards? =O
[16:54] <wowrats> changed the color
[16:54] <Faeranicus> Tradeskills guys, tradeskills!
[16:55] <vs40fresh> 7please stop that wowrats
[16:55] <vs40fresh> =)
[16:55] <fudgeman> GUYs
[16:55] <Raal> so faer can u do the honors
[16:55] <kriskoman> you could fish for shrimp ramen =p
[16:55] <wowrats> my bad
[16:55] <crobi> i'll second the musical instrument
[16:55] <Aorn> Next people who do that will be kicked
[16:55] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> lol
[16:55] <Katricia> VS
[16:55] <zeeg> slow down guys
[16:55] <Raal> guys shh
[16:55] <Raal> new topic
[16:55] <vs40fresh> hey kat
[16:55] <Raal> Bounty Hunting
[16:55] <Raal> think this should be in? and to what extent maybe?
[16:55] <Raal> k faer
[16:55] <Faeranicus> Only kat may use colored text or emotes.
[16:55] <Frostbite> Bounty hunting=abusable if it's for players
[16:55] <El_Cid[Pirate]> Taverns will show the bounties, I think it's a great idea :>
[16:55] <RamenChef> yep
[16:55] <x[lonewolf]> Can you hunt for bounty?
[16:55] <Seraph-AFK> i think would be cool is if, you like get to lvl 50 and then u get a quest to do off an npc. say ur a Dwarf warrior. hes a Paladin. and u have to do a trial to learn the ways. and then u get no new looks of nothing. but u get some sort of upgrade ( Name: Paladin First Last) and some new skills
[16:55] <Raal> yea kat u should use a colored text your special
[16:55] <Katricia> dances around at her power to be the only one with pretty text colors
[16:55] <x[ninjax]> what about booty hunting
[16:55] <x[ninjax]> ?
[16:56] <Kaikulux> lol
[16:56] <RamenChef> lol
[16:56] <El_Cid[Pirate]> oi
[16:56] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> would be a good penalty for griefers ;)
[16:56] <fudgeman> booty heh
[16:56] <Egggolem> lol
[16:56] <Kredit> should just leave bounties for players to determine
[16:56] <kriskoman> thats hardcore -,-
[16:56] <Zionstorm> Bounty Hunting would be l33t
[16:56] <clearwater> !! corrupt with power
[16:56] <Raal> well they said wanted posters can be quests
[16:56] <x[lonewolf]> aye
[16:56] <xBlitzerx> lol
[16:56] <zeeg> Katricia, ctrl+k :p then like 04 after it
[16:56] <wowrats> Kat... any info on zeppelins or blimps... only seen like 1 pic with them in it.
[16:56] <zeeg> if you didnt know
[16:56] <wowrats> They still in the game?
[16:56] <GhouL-> i think rogues should be able to become assassins, and bounty hunt
[16:56] <Bacardi[1G]> The only reasonable extent would be do elite mobs, or super elite monsters, player bounty hunting cuts down on the fun for the hunted =[
[16:56] <fudgeman> ya
[16:56] <blizzardguildsjavA> i can't seem to change my nick to anything other than some capitalized permutation of "blizzardguildsjava" i'm trying to change to "calx"
[16:56] <Raal> wowrats
[16:56] <Xaviar> bounty hunting would be impossible.. 'excuse me can you turn on pvp so i can kill you?'
[16:56] <Raal> stay on topic
[16:56] <uL_Dan> cant we irc chat instead of play 20 questions...
[16:56] <wowrats> ok
[16:56] <uL_Dan> i have a trivia bot....
[16:56] <fudgeman> GUYS
[16:56] <uL_Dan> -_-
[16:56] <x[lonewolf]> who would put out the bounty?
[16:56] <fudgeman> C MON
[16:56] <Raal> we don't wana bug her bout questions, if she anwsers some thats great
[16:56] <RamenChef> start her p
[16:56] <Craftstar> Where exactly IS Pandaria? Is it even in the game, I wonder.
[16:56] <Frostbite> anyone remember what happened with the UO bounty system? The pks got a friend to kill them and then they split their own bounty.
[16:56] <RamenChef> no color
[16:56] <clearwater> cheat
[16:56] <Seraph-AFK> guilds would put out bounties
[16:56] <Aeduin> Could be cool to have bounties on players with poor faction reputation.
[16:56] <clearwater> ban
[16:56] <clearwater> boot
[16:56] <x[lonewolf]> Would anyone that has beef put outt he bounty?
[16:57] <zeeg> STAY ON TOPIC
[16:57] <clearwater> only fair
[16:57] <crobi> what about a quest with super reward that gets you on the bounty list?
[16:57] <kriskoman> bounty hunting doesnt sound like a good idea, how would you know whos wanted besides high levels?
[16:57] <Bacardi[1G]> GMs should set up the mob or the monster, then set a bounty or wanted poster.
[16:57] <x[lonewolf]> how would you collect on the bounty, if you killed the player?
[16:57] <wowrats> what is the current topic?
[16:57] <GhouL-> kriskoman, a list
[16:57] <Aeduin> bring the ear to some official
[16:57] <zeeg> I dont think Bounty Hunting is needed in WoW, as its more geared towards PvM
[16:57] <Seraph-AFK> to kill some1 (if theres a bounty on some1 then an ear would drop) the killer could then take the ear as evidence and recieve an award
[16:57] <fudgeman> KAT"S NOT GONNA ANSWERT IF WE BOMBARD HER WITH CRAP
[16:57] <Aorn> x[lonewolf] Yeah tehre will be no looting on ground
[16:57] <Raal> ok faer
[16:57] <Cloudchaser> Yeah, so I'm getting an insight on WoW's general chat channel in-game, fascinating.
[16:57] <Raal> do it
[16:57] <kriskoman> but how do you get on the list?
[16:57] <xBlitzerx> Is there a page with info on teleporting? Because I know from the Knight Online beta, teleporting is nothing, almost every race can do it, will it be like this in WoW
[16:57] <Aorn> there*
[16:57] <Aeduin>
[16:57] <clearwater> she will answer whta she wants
[16:57] <clearwater> its not hurting her
[16:57] <Raal> faer
[16:57] <Jedi`> will skills in a particulare tradeskill be anything like it is in EQ? or will it be directly related to your level etc?
[16:57] <Raal> do ur magic lol
[16:57] <zeeg> its hurting me
[16:57] <zeeg> and my eyes
[16:57] <Raal> faer
[16:57] <GoH> if you guys dont have a question, you should be quiet so maybe she can answer more questions
[16:57] <Raal> do m
[16:57] <zeeg> now stay on topic and dont talk unless its wow related
[16:57] <fudgeman> can u give us any news on BEta ?
[16:57] <clearwater> oh boo hoo at zeeg
[16:57] <CaptJamie> What is the current Topic?
[16:57] <Aeduin> +m
[16:57] <LLJKSoviet> m first
[16:58] <Raal> there
[16:58] <Raal> ok guys
[16:58] <zeeg> new topic
[16:58] <Raal> really, come on, we are supposed to be discussing this
[16:58] <Raal> zeeg shh for a sec please
[16:58] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> go raal go ;)
[16:58] <Raal> you all should of came here for the discussion
[16:58] <Faeranicus> Discussion please, not Q&A. If need be, we will have to perminantly moderate... Let's not let it elivate to that level
[16:58] <Raal> having kat here is a honor, and bombing her with questions isn't how we should treat blizzard employees
[16:58] <vs40fresh> you want dudes banned just op me i got no mercy =)
[16:58] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> *works on learning stairway to heaven for guitar* ;) (Sorry, I know...little off topic )
[16:58] <Katricia> lol VS
[16:58] <Raal> lol
[16:59] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> ya vs40
[16:59] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> I'm the same
[16:59] <Aorn> vs40fresh, We got this covered
[16:59] <Aorn> 8)
[16:59] <vs40fresh> .
[16:59] <zeeg> Katricia, you should just come on irc every day, we do, its fun
[16:59] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> At Ogresnet they call Mithras the evil one, but really it should be me
[16:59] <Raal> we will start kicking if people are getting really out of hand
[16:59] <Raal> thanks
[16:59] <Raal> and crafster
[16:59] <Raal> give his ops back lol
[16:59] <Aorn> Raal, new topic
[16:59] <LLJKSoviet> I think Raal has to set the ops in the channel options
[16:59] <Raal> u pick aorn
[16:59] <LLJKSoviet> Or it takes them away automatically
[16:59] <zeeg> !addop zeeg
[16:59] <zeeg>
[16:59] <Aorn> Okay, Unique weapons and their Effects
[16:59] <Raal> sounds good
[16:59] <RamenChef> k
[17:00] <kriskoman> life steal in the game? =p
[17:00] <zeeg> unique weapons would be awesome
[17:00] <GoH> interesting ;)
[17:00] <Craftstar> I gotta head out, catch you guys on the flip side
[17:00] <RamenChef> c ya
[17:00] <Kredit> particle effects are nice
[17:00] <zeeg> just something to set yourself off from other people
[17:00] <RamenChef> yep
[17:00] <Cloudchaser> How unique would unique be anyway.
[17:00] <Aorn> 9 Current Topic: Unique weapons and their Effects
[17:00] <MetalJaden> Kat, I drew this picture of a NE... for you http://images3.deviantart.com/i/2004/10/4/9/__The_Last_Stand____with_blood.jpg
[17:00] <Kaikulux> unique items with "x% to cast spell on attack" (similar to d2) would be interesting
[17:00] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> cya craftstar
[17:00] <Raal> aorn don't do it
[17:00] <Kredit> unique should all be soulbound/no drop
[17:00] <Xorastiz> no links
[17:00] <xBlitzerx> lol
[17:00] <Xorastiz> kick
[17:00] <Seraph-AFK> the thing about topics is theres only a certain extent u can discuss it. and not everything like everything so topics can change very fast
[17:00] <zeeg> Just weapons, with unique effects would be good, like UO added.. it made it awesome
[17:00] <Raal> aorn!
[17:00] <Raal> lol
[17:00] <kriskoman> soulbound is so annoying
[17:00] <Arkangel-LGT> Hopes peoples will be able to put their name and logo on the weapons they make!
[17:00] <CSR> I have seen glowing long swords in WoW will there be glowing daggers for the rouges?
[17:00] <Craftstar> what the hell
[17:00] <kriskoman> it ruins your arrangment of bags when you die
[17:00] <zeeg> ugly colors Aorn ;p
[17:00] <uL_Dan> these are the live-action blizzard forums...
[17:00] <RamenChef> i want a glowing blade
[17:00] <crobi> unique items with not much higher power but cool glowing effect is what I like
[17:00] <Bacardi[1G]> Wonder if they will emplement treasure finding items that will glow when theres booty nearby =]
[17:00] <CaptJamie> combined effects, I had several orbs in W3 like poison/fire/lightning, that would be nice
[17:00] <blizzardguildsJaVaCalx> I just hope you can "trick" items like armor and weapons when you craft them
[17:00] <zeeg> RamenChef, me too =)
[17:01] <clearwater> I want to be like in the Last Saumurai and dual weild samurai swords and charge at enemy
[17:01] <uL_Ataris> stop asking questions.. again this isnt a Q & A
[17:01] <x[lonewolf]> my eyes can't keep up
[17:01] <x[lonewolf]> ow
[17:01] <Faeranicus> No links to pictures. Too many bad experiences.
[17:01] <RamenChef> lol
[17:01] <Packer_long> ahhh
[17:01] <Zionstorm> I heard you can't drop ANYTHING?
[17:01] <Raal> sigh
[17:01] <LLJKSoviet> heh
[17:01] <Raal> okay aorn
[17:01] <Raal> u can say the new rule!
[17:01] <Faeranicus> Correct, you can't drop
[17:01] <KofA-LegacyofTorture> You can't drop stuff zionstorm
[17:01] <Raal> every one be quite while aorn descibes the new rule
[17:01] <Faeranicus> If anyone was in the Lineage 2 beta, they will understand the reason.
[17:01] <Raal> faer shh
[17:01] <zeeg> can't drop, as in can't sell
[17:01] <zeeg> this discussion isn't working raal
[17:01] <zeeg> not enough discuss time
[17:02] <Aeduin> watch the NDA faer
[17:02] <Raal> we got a new rule since aorn might be afk or some thing
[17:02] <Raal> ok
[17:02] <Raal> guys, if you direct questions to kat we will be kicking, reason is this is a discussion, if kat jumps in and anwsers questions thats AWSOME but its spaming to many questions
[17:02] <Aorn> Anyone who will be asking direct answers to Katricia will be kicked, simply because Katricias is here because she wants too, not for our luxury of a Q&A
[17:02] <zeeg> hows faer get alpha and zeegy dont =(
[17:02] <RamenChef> my client goin crazy
[17:02] <Raal> aww aorn said better
[17:02] <BlizzardGuildsJAVA> oh sorry
[17:02] <RamenChef> my client goin crazy
[17:02] <xBlitzerx> explain to those of us who weren't/aren't (about dropping items)
[17:02] <zeeg> Aorn, thats dumb, thats like saying katricia is above everyone
[17:02] <Raal> every mod, if any one questions you have the right to kick
[17:02] <RamenChef> my client goin crazy
[17:02] <x[lonewolf]> I'd date her
[17:02] <Raal> zeeg
[17:03] <LLJKSoviet> Blitzer, what?
[17:03] <GhouL-> as far as i know, i asked before about aura weapons, and they are apparently in... you can have a flaming sword, and it does extra damage, some unique weapons automatically get this as a trait, but some can be enchanted
[17:03] <Packer_long> Kat is above us
[17:03] <Cloudchaser> Man, what is this, amateur hour..
[17:03] <RamenChef> sometime it wont let me sen 












		

The Quality of Video Games
Posted on 03/25/04 by Loren_3000


By Loren Fisher

In my last article, I commented about gameplay, those game mechanics, the set of rules, in which the game is played. While games like Pac-Man and Asteroids may have a very challenging set of rules, and thus very compelling gameplay, gameplay is not everything which games can be rated upon. In this article I will touch upon basically everything other than gameplay, and why they too can "make or break" a game.

The first aspect of games that I would like to delve into is sound. Quality sound effects and music are very important to gamers and game designers. While some video games do not have any sound at all, most game developers would not consider making a game without it today. This is because sound can be a very important tool to affect the audience while playing. Just like a movie, if a game has moments of suspense, a piece of music can be composed to reflect that. Musical compositions can move the audience in other ways, bringing about feelings of tranquility. In addition to musical sequences, sound effects are very important. In racing and flight games for example, the first ones had very bad sound effects by today's standards: the sound of the engine would be a raspy scale that would go up or down as you accelerated or decelerated. This worked back then, but today, gamers demand a better representation of authenticity in the sound effects in their games, and as such, game developers often hire their own sound effects department (or team, in Blizzard's case), or temporarily hire some people who make it their business to do sound effects. For more information about sound effects, and voiceovers, be sure to check out my other interview with Lani Minella, who has done voice work in Diablo, War3, TFT, WoW, and over 300 other major game titles.

Next, there are graphics. In the beginning, the level of detail that could be put into games was related directly to advancements in technology. As such, the games with the best graphics could be found on those hardware systems capable of producing those graphics. It was the summer of 1985, and the console wars were just about to begin between Nintendo and Sega. Both systems were capable of decent graphics; the games they produced were on equal ground. As the years progressed, both companies released new systems capable of 32 bit graphics. Graphically, the technology available hit a plateau and as such, it was up to the graphical designers to take the graphical elements of the game to the next level. These designers learned the ins and outs of pixel art and shading, to make a 2D "game sprite" or object look like it was 3D, even though it wasn't. This is very evident in the Nintendo title, Donkey Kong Country. Eventually 64 bit graphics were achieved, but many developers were new to creating games in 3D and so, for a while at least, there wasn't an abundance of 3D game developers. Eventually, many developers came on board the 3D bandwagon, and many quality games were created. Yet as this was happening, computers were getting better and better, to the point where they are today, able to exceed the graphics of console systems. Again, the technology has more or less hit a plateau, and it is up to the designers to create a good game. Quality is now determined in how smooth and realistic the textures wrap around 3D models, as well as those models themselves. Also, the smoothness of animation in those models is very important and can make them seem much more lifelike. The graphics of World of Warcraft are very animated indeed, wolves sniff the ground and scratch behind their ear like a dog, and there are plenty of small touches like footprints being left in the snow. There are many other examples, but needless to say, the world seems very alive. The graphics are markedly excellent, a fantastic balance of what the machines can do graphically, and what Blizzard's designers have created. Everything is perfect: every campfire, model, and piece of architecture (like a barracks or Orc burrow) looks like it has been taken right from the RTS series. Even some of the icons for spells or abilities are identical. All this has been done intentionally and with excellent results: players familiar with the RTS series will be able to jump right in and start recognizing things, and the game will have its own feel to it that is definitely "Warcraft".

Replayability is also an important factor when rating a game. This term means if you were to play through the entire game again, would you continue to enjoy it as much or more than the first time through? Some games, like Snake and Tetris, are very simple, and playing through them the second time is pretty much no different from playing through the first time. Some games, especially RPG's began to use randomness: multiple shoreline arcs and multiple endings, to increase replayability in their games. In a MMORPG, however, a team continues to create new content for the game after it is initially released, meaning there is always something new about the game. Many RPG's like the World of Warcraft also have several different Races and Classes to play as, increasing replayability. Often, the play style of each class is significantly different from one another, and creating a new class is like experiencing a whole new game!

Having a quality storyline is also very important. The Warcraft series is famous for its long-standing and detailed history. Already the series has a huge fan base that will enjoy seeing how the storyline progresses while playing the World of Warcraft. One thing that players desire is the ability to influence the storyline in some way. There has been talk of an overarching storyline for the World of Warcraft, but also, there has been talk of special one-time quests where the first person to complete the quest will be the only person able to do so. While these quests likely will not affect the entire storyline, they will have a dramatic effect on the game world.

Lastly, because this game is multiplayer, players will be able to have fun socializing, trading, and interacting with one another. Blizzard is supporting the social aspects of this game by implementing a fully featured friend's list, multiple chat channels to converse in (including party, guild, trade, general, and much more), and the ability to message other player(s) instantly. Blizzard is also implementing a wide spectrum of emotes, that players can use to make their character show emotion through an animation and orange text. Emotes can be directed to everyone or to individual players or even objects. The two factions, the Horde and the Alliance, will each have access to a variety of languages. If you wish to learn an exotic language like demonic tongue, you and your friend can converse and everyone else will see your text as a garble of letters and phonics, unless they too have trained in that particular language. And to top it all off, players will be able to join together with members of the same faction to form guilds, complete with a dynamic guild management system, meaning the promotion and demotion of members can be handled in a variety of ways, whether those members are online or not. Guild members are easily identifiable, and can even purchase a tabard, worn over their armor, to mark them as part of the guild.

OK, that's all folks! By reading both of my articles, I hope you have gained a more detailed understanding about what things make video games good and fun! Use my articles to help you rate the games you have played, and if you are developing your own game, I hope you go over each of these aspects, gameplay, sound, graphics, replayability, storyline, and socialization. 











An Anthropological Survey of the Trolls
Posted on 04/06/03 by Ishar Morrad Chuain


After a brief period of craziness and dabbling into the black arts of fanfic making, I return to more standard fare. This time we shall investigate the world of the Trolls, probably the most ill-represented and maligned race in the world of Warcraft. You see, they only have one description found in our source of information is that quite bluntly Trolls are a savage uncultured race. In fact, they are described in a words like vile and scheming.. But as is the case with most labels, this might just be altogether wrong and just the result of simple cultural differences and even worse, faulty education. Furthermore we might have more evidence of a greater heritage for Trolls than recently thought. In any case, I welcome you to the world of Trolls.

Introduction:
Now before we begin let’s clarify a few things first. One, this isn’t really an Anthropological survey, just something I’ve cooked up while on one of my mythical midnight runs. Although I do have some rudimentary knowledge of Anthropology, I am not an expert in these matters. Secondly, it’s rather hard to analyse a whole civilization (or in this case, race) without a time frame so in light of that I’ll be analysing the whole race, as a general overview and I’ll go dig deeper into the Trolls as we “see” and “perceive” them now. Now that we have that settled let us go on.

Origins: A Pretty Extensive family tree

The beginning for us would be thousands upon thousands of years ago, when the Titans came to Planet Azeroth and delivered it from the evil clutches of the Old Gods. From this period, they created two races: The Dwarves and the Dragons. Now some time after that the Kaldorei (Night Elves) and the Trolls surfaced.

Now it is very possible that the Kaldorei and the Trolls co-existed and co-existed peacefully. You see, some sources claim that the Trolls actually pre-date the Night Elves. Now with the Kaldorei reaching the pinnacle of evolution and seeing themselves as protectors of Azeroth, they would have seen the Trolls as either a threat or a friend. Apparently, they spared the Trolls therefore making them an ally or a non-threat. If they did see the Trolls as threats, the overpowered Night Elves would have readily destroyed them.

Of course, the possibility exists that Kaldorei and the Trolls never really saw each other as the Kaldorei were probably busy primping and grooming themselves and the Trolls were probably too far away to notice.

We can also speculate at maybe a common ancestor for Trolls and the Kaldorei. But again we have no empirical evidence to support this but we can improve on current theories and try to prove this.

You see the longer a species is on a planet the more it tends to diversify. In a way, length is equal to population and a good population means longevity or later food becomes a problem and a part of this species runs off and lives off in another part of the world. Since environments aren’t static, naturally races would have had to adapt to certain environments while still retaining their species. You can see this if you look at the diversity of humanity. We have Caucasians, Negroids, Mongoloids and Austronesians. Each of these adapt to their environs but can still intermingle with each other. The primary reason for this is because they still maintain contact with each other and never fully change or separate from the mother species. The same thing can be said of dogs with the hundred or so breeds it has.

Now imagine a proto-Kaldorei-Troll. They are basically the hunter-gatherers that the Trolls are and the Kaldorei had been. They populate the then Pangaea Continent Kalimdor and spread out diversifying. What then happens is that they diversify, branching out and becoming strong.

But then, an unnatural occurrence comes about. The Well of Eternity happens and the world is screwed up. Since the Well of Eternity grants powers of magnitude to the people who come in it’s presence. This accelerated the growth of the proto-Kaldorei and ping!, out of the microwave comes out the Night Elves.

So how does this prove that Elves and Trolls come from a common ancestor? Take a look at the trolls we have right now. To make it easier let’s focus on the Forest Trolls and the Island Trolls. Now the basic difference they have is colour. Forest Trolls are green-skinned while Island Trolls are Blue skinned. The reason for this is simple. Since the trolls hunt for their food, naturally they would adapt to maximise their hunting ability. Since green skin doesn’t stand out in the forests, the Forest Trolls are adapted to their environment, while Island Trolls who have a lot less forests and a lot more water also use their colouring to camouflage themselves.

You see the same thing with Kaldorei and then thereafter with Quel’dorei. The darker skin of the Kaldorei was perfect for their hunting strata: To hunt at night. Darker skin means less visibility at night. It’s the same kind of adaptation theme that the Trolls have. The Quel’dorei, blatant magic users, were probably the first non-hunters, therefore not requiring themselves to have adaptations for hunting and therefore became lighter skinned. But the real hint of their common ancestry is their basic body features. Both have the same build and the similar features. Both have long pointed ears and nothing odd, like other body parts. The thing that differentiates them the most is colour and as I’ve shown, colour apparently doesn’t denote a different species when it comes to Trolls.

One will argue that this doesn’t separate them from humans, but as I tried to prove in my earlier articles, Humans didn’t originate from Azeroth. But from a perspective of evolution, from their configuration, they look no different than what a man would look to a fellow hominid. They are interpretations from the same basic design. And the fact they both arrived at the same time reinforces that line of thinking. Never mind the fact that they have different values or the fact that they do digress in several traits. Evolution makes you adapt to your environment and the way you conform to it makes you what you are, hence the huge amount of differences we have now.

But then again, this is just another convoluted hypothesis coming from the unfathomable mystery that is my brain. With the huge amount of craziness that happened with Azeroth we aren’t sure of anything are we? After that, well, I leave the thinking up to you guys.

Histories: Lies and Daggers

Now let’s debunk that major notion that the Trolls are “evil” as they say. You see, it’s only the High Elves and the Humans who really say that, but from other perspectives, other races like the Orcs or the Tauren we don’t see that happening.

The real story begins in the War of Power. When the Pangaea continent of Kaldorei was split asunder by the cosmic explosion of the Well of Eternity, it virtually separated the Kaldorei from the Trolls. Now this period is really a blank one because we have no records of Troll goings on at that time. Plus the events highlighted thereafter are all on the Kalimdori side of the Ocean and have no accurate timeframe. So again, we only work with mere speculation on the Troll side.

One of the things that probably happened at this time was the spread of Trolls on the continent of Azeroth. They were probably more extensive than we think, Troll cities and towns spreading out all over Azeroth. Again we aren’t sure but I think it is a good extrapolation of what might have happened. You see as we will find out later, the Trolls territories are much further north than the current one. Secondly, the presence of strong architectural strata found in Stranglethorn supports the theory. The next question then is what the hell happened to this so-called civilization?

The first clue is the other people found on Azeroth. We have the Elves, Dwarves and Humans. Now what we do know is that Elves have always been at odds with the Trolls. Why? The hate all starts from when the Elves first arrive on Azeroth. The records state that the Trolls hate the Elves because the Elves stole the Troll lands. So a scenario is forming.

When the Elves arrive on Azeroth two things probably happen. One, when they arrive they befriend the Trolls but the cultural differences are too intense that it ignites causing a war. A probable reason for this is territory. You see, territory is very important to society. Territory denotes power. Now with the Elves encroaching on Troll lands, it infringes on the Trolls territorial boundaries. Quite possibly, the Quel’dorei didn’t know they were transgressing anything. Seeking to defend their territory, the Trolls start the war in which they eventually lose and are driven off, retreating to rainforests of Stranglethorn. It could be also be another totally different reason, like the Elves accidentally desecrating burial grounds, making wrong alliances and so on and so forth. Arthur Schopenhauer once said that not recognizing something inherent to a culture is barbarity at its fullest.

The other thing that might have happened could be a bit more plausible. The Elves, seeing themselves as superior beings, try to subjugate the Trolls. If you look at High Elf History from the start of their Separation, they were probably the most bigoted people of their time. The Quel’dorei treated their Kaldorei brethren as mere chattel. It was only the War of Power that changed all of that. So, upon arrival on Azeroth, they saw themselves as the rightful owners of the Troll lands because they perceived that the Trolls were inferior, or even worse, animals. With superior firepower (from their magic) they drove the Trolls from their homelands and then systematically erased the troll heritage from the lands, replacing it with their own culture.

Humanity probably had a role in this too. With the arrival of humanity, you had another race that was extremely racist. Quite possibly, the humans identified with the Elves, who had more human forms, so their first recourse would be to distrust the green skinned trolls. This was probably the start of the great Alliance that would shake its fist at the heavens one day.

A good parallel of this happening are found in India and in America. In Ancient India, a civilization called the Dravidians flourished, creating a highly sophisticated society and magnificent cities. It all came to a crashing end upon the arrival of the Aryans from the Middle East. With superior forces they conquered the whole of India, imposing their own cultural values on the Dravidians. In fact, the Aryans are the ones who instituted the caste system on India, naming the Dravidians the lowest of the low caste and Untouchable.

The American parallel is pretty obvious. One can remember the Pilgrims and Cortez and everything in between. With the creation of the American colonies came the destruction of the American and Mesoamerican Indian civilizations, leaving shattered cultures. Compounded by diseases brought over from the other side of the goal, a lot of plagues wiped out a good number of Indians (Pocahontas and smallpox comes to mind).

In then end, what happened was cultural upheaval. In truth, cultural upheaval is natural. You can’t label this as evil because well, it’s perfectly natural. It happens now as it happens then. Though as humans, we don’t want to accept this, because it’s human nature not to accept it. It’s unpalatable and therefore anathema to human tastes but it happens anyway. I for one will try to resist cultural upheaval because it’s my nature to defend against it and it would be fatalistic to let some other culture destroy my own.

But then, why does history mark the Trolls as evil and malicious? Quite simple really, history is always written by the winners. It always presents its representative culture as honourable and courageous. History in fact, is the world’s oldest form of propaganda. As time goes on, History inculcates itself with the civilization’s cultural values, shaping them into what they perceive themselves to be.

A good example here is Japan. Some time ago, a history book published in Japan got a lot of attention from the Korean peninsula. You see the book glazed over WW2 with a sugary coating, in fact lauding Japanese actions in WW2. They viewed themselves as having a greater purpose at that time and only failed because of the untimely intervention of America.

This pattern exists in earlier anime from the 70’s. Mazinger Z and Voltes 5 told stories of a world being invaded by “aliens” to be rescued later on by some mythical gigantic robot. And almost always, the invaders were blond Caucasians. Warship Yamamoto, another old anime, is a reference to a real ship, actually the flagship in fact of the Japanese navy, which was lost at sea during WW2. The story was that there again were “aliens” invading Japan and suddenly, the Warship Yamamoto appears out of nowhere to save the day. (Although one can argue that DBZ, a very popular anime, is the reverse of this, DBZ however is actually a very late phenomenon, when westernisation was all the rage in Japan.)

In any case, this scenario is present in Azeroth history. Since for most of the time, both the Elves and Humans wrote the history that we know, they perceive themselves as the good guys, and the Trolls believed that opposite of this. The lesson here is that the Historian, tells a story. A story that is important to him and not anyone else. So the Historian has the licence to write in the details of the story that he deems to be important. Will it be important to make the people who will read this history look at the enemy as a misjudged and brutalized people? No, unless it was your objective from the start to show these people as such which isn’t the case in most pieces of history. In any case, the lesson here is History probably isn’t your story. It’s someone else’s, with his own biases and misgivings permeating all throughout it’s entirety.


But a word of caution, though I have been a bit critical of history in the last paragraphs or so, History still provides an important role in the formation of our culture as it gives us a foundation to work on. It gives us a foothold on our own culture and our own identity. The point I was trying to make is that History shouldn’t always be seen at fact value.

Economics: An Introduction to Broad Based Economies

Now from the onset of the Orc Society article, I have stated that the best way to understand a culture is to look at their economy. The economy is almost interconnected to every aspect of life, from leadership to the food you eat. Again, I say to you the same explanation, economy isn’t about money rather it’s about how you sustain your daily living. Now, back then, I explained to you about a Pastoralist economy, which is where you raise livestock to get your daily food intake. Well, we aren’t going to talk about them now. This time, we’ll discuss the polar opposite of Pastoralist/Agricultural civilizations. We’ll be talking about Broad Based Economies.

To put it bluntly, broad based economies or hunting-and-gathering economies are economies that get their food from a broad spectrum or from a wide range of food sources. Normally to the average person, this mean you get your food from the wild but then again there are a lot of grey areas that mar that definition.

For example, you have hunting. Now when you hunt, you get your food from wild animals, meaning animals that aren’t domesticated. By that definition, hunting is basically the same as a pastoralist except that pastoralism involves domesticated animals. Now the question arises, does broad based economies end when you domesticate something. The answer is no.

A good illustration to explain this is a tribe found in the rainforests of Papua New Guinea. They raise hogs for a living but they are not a pastoralist society. How so? Well, for one, they don’t move around trying to feed their hogs, rather they feed it tubers and roots that the tribe grows for food. Secondly, you don’t have a standardization of stock species. In pastoralism, you try to standardize the species of your stock so they can be more productive or healthier. Thirdly and more importantly, they don’t depend on hogs alone to survive.

Now people will argue that all economies don’t depend on a single source of food. Well, that’s true, but tell me how the economy of China will survive without rice or the economy of the United States without wheat or cattle? Seems well nigh impossible isn’t it? The point is, that tribe in Papua New Guinea will still survive even if for some sort of reason, the hogs all die out, that tribe will still survive because they have a lot of other food sources. They have tubers and roots, the fruits from various trees and they could still hunt for wild game.

Another grey area is horticulture. In horticulture, you cultivate crops but that doesn’t make it into agriculture. You see, to be agricultural in nature, you have to cultivate to create a surplus, meaning a well-defined harvesting and planting season. This all becomes possible when you have irrigation or a good water delivery season. You see, with irrigation, you can plant at a pace you control. You will also standardize a species for cultivation. The reason for this is that you want the best species for growth. Everything else is just a weed. In fact, once there were more than a thousand species of rice. Now, there’s only one, Oryza Sativa.

But horticulture doesn’t use irrigation rather they just use the plants that grow around their place, rarely intervening with the natural growth order of the plant crops. You also see the same things in my previous examples. You don’t have standardization of species. Rather they just gather the seeds of whatever edibles they find and use those, without regard for growth or surplus. Secondly, they aren’t ultimately required to survive. You again have other food sources you can survive on. You aren’t stuck in a hole when your staple food crop mysteriously dies out. So technically, your grandma planting crops in her backyard isn’t agriculture, it’s horticulture.

So clearing that up, let’s move on to why broad based economies occur. But the question isn’t why…it’s where. Generally, when you look at the world you see a vast vista of different landscapes, and every one of them is inhabited by humanity. Now for our purposes, there are only two kinds of environments for humanity. We have soft-environs and hard-environs.

Soft-environs are where you would usually expect to find your humans. Truth to tell, this is where you would find most of the animals and plants. These are lands in a virtual state of plenty, rich and teeming with life, like a virtual Eden. These are the forests and jungles, the coastlines teeming with seafood. On the other hand, there are hard-environs, barren wastes that nobody could fathom anyone can live in. These are the deserts, the mountains and the tundra. These are where you won’t expect to find humans.

But then, if we look at history, the concept we know as civilization didn’t start in the coastlines or the forests of the world. They started in the deserts and barren wastes. Mesopotamia, Egypt, India and China sprung from these places. Why?

Well, for one thing these places had rivers but that’s not the main point here. You see, my dear readers, humanity always springs up near a water source, never mind the location. So water is always a constant and therefore, not the variable that determines the end result of the equation. So to tell you why, I’m going to make a complete ass of myself and tell you a story I got from a children’s book.

In a field one summer's day a Grasshopper was hopping about, chirping and singing to its heart's content. An Ant passed by bearing along with great toil an ear of corn he was taking to the nest.

"Why not come and chat with me," said the Grasshopper, "instead of toiling and moiling in that way?"

"I am helping to lay up food for the winter," said the Ant, "and recommend you to do the same."

"Why bother about winter?" said the Grasshopper, “We have got plenty of food at present." But the Ant went on its way and continued its toil. When the winter came the Grasshopper had no food and found itself dying of hunger, while it saw the ants distributing every day corn and grain from the stores they had collected in the summer.

Okay, now it seems far-fetched that this story from good old Aesop has anything to do with our discussion but it just needs a stretch of imagination, and hopefully you might understand. You see, the grasshoppers have it all. They are large for their size, they can fly, plus they have a sophisticated radar system. The ant on the other hand was puny, and they had no natural defences (well they do have a stinging bite) but in the end, an ant would get killed easily. One can say that grasshoppers live in a constant state of plenty while ants have it tough.

But this fundamental difference creates an interesting dynamic. You see, even with that, the ants somehow still manage to survive, and have more numbers than the grasshoppers. Why? You see, the ants have in their favour of being in a sorrier state and therefore initiate actions that are better for them. They organize and form up. Plus they stock up on food. In the end, though they started sorrier, they’ll eventually tough it out and become king of the (ant) hill.

You find the same patterns in early civilization. In Mesopotamia for example you find a pattern of lands of plenty mixed up with lands of desolation. Originally, humans would inhabit the lands of plenty to make use of the resources but sooner or later, the population would put a strain on these resources. So they then move out to these so-called lands of little plenty, the deserts. Now this is where the fun starts. Without the resources of the lands of plenty, they need to create something that will help them survive these places. So they invent agriculture. In retrospect, the quote “Necessity is the mother of all invention” comes to mind. Since it is necessary for them to have food, they use irrigation and agriculture to survive. In fact, almost all evidences of Mesopotamian agriculture happen in the desert. Then after a few centuries or so, these neo-agricultural civilizations eventually rise up and conquer (see The Izsera). 










		
	
Creep difficulty and location
Posted on 02/23/03 by Jadix


ok think about an ACTUAL world..a real living world. now...are there places on the world with little wussy animals running around, and then one place where all the kick ass animals chill? NO. animals are evenly spaced everywhere. Though certain animals only live in certain places. 
What if every person had an "aura" around them that buffed creatures depending on that players skill level. that way, there would be no "newbie land" and then a seperate land where all the high level people had to play on. a high level person would still have a much easier time killing a forest gnoll than a new character, but it wouldn't be like a level 10 demon hunter vs an archer in war3. 
Understand what im trying to say? like, if you got a really high level char, you wouldn't have to stay on one island or land, you could still go to your starting village and have fun. and that way, if your friend is a casual player, and you are hardcore, you could still have fun together. The monsters difficulty would be based on an average between you and your friends levels. 
And you wouldn't have to worry about newbies going out and killing dragons because certain monsters would have a minimum difficulty, so that not just anybody can kill them. now players would be able to enjoy the entire world...not just the PART of the world they currently HAVE to play in because of their level. 












RPG or highly interactive Chat Room?
Posted on 01/22/03 by feigro


Alright.I have played several MMORPGs and in all i have noticed the same thing that personally i don't like.I'm a big fan of storylines and character interaction so I love being my character in any game.But to get to the point,In a MMORPG aren't you in a world different from ours and playing yourself as a different being?
Then why do i hear people talk about how they like there coffee or last weeks episode of the simpsons.I mean i understand there is no real way to escape reality,but C'mon guys,in a fantasy type realm,why do you call the main fighters of the team a tank?the have not been invented and probably never would be invented(exception with the steam tank of WC3)couldn't you call him the fighter,or warrior,or rather than as "who's tanking" just say "who's guarding" or "who's up front" I know this topci isn't a big deal to half of the population of RPGers but still.
Furthermore,Why would an MMORPG have a seperate server called an RPG sever?Let's look at the type of game....
massive multyplayer online ROLE PLAYING GAME!! They All should be RPG servers!!!?
And last but sertantly not least,the name issue...Feigro,that is my name,and it sounds like a fantasy/middle age type person would be named that or "Arthas" but do you really think any sane person would name their child "GOATtheBARTEND"
or "Cutegirl69" C'mon people!!
My apologies for ranting,but i had to get this out of my system,it is driving me nuts. 









Thor's Theory- PvP
Posted on 01/20/03 by Roin Ironfist


Hello comrades! My name is Thor Stormfist. You may know my cousin Brann, the Dwarven explorer, who wrote "The Journey of Brann". Well, I write diaries.
I am hear to tell you about my view on the game "The World of Warcraft" I will inform you of my theories, my observations, and my personal thoughts. I will be covering everything from the basics of the game, to the most highly defined small details, that even Brann wouldn't notice.

Please, if you would like me to cover a topic on almost anything that has to do with WoW, please submit it to roin@wowtavern.com and I will review your submission, and then reply to you if i will be writing a diary on it.


Now, on to the diary.
__________________________________________

Player vs. Player

Hello comrades! Today i will be informing you on my view of how player vs. player (*PvP) combat will work in *WoW. I think that there will be a specific server for PvP WoW or there will be special times when you can use it. Such as tournaments.

When you join with your character in WoW, you start at your last bind point. (*Bind point) Once you are in an open area, such as a field, you can immerse in combat with other players. Ok, now onto a demonstration on my point of view.

Lets say you are a human warrior and are doing PvP in another server.:

When you enter an open field, you can walk up to the opponent you would like to challenge, and click the "ask player to duel" button on your interface. The player that was asked the question gets a pop-up box that reads:

"Click yes to engage in a duel with _____"

"Click no to to engage in a duel with _____"



If the player refuses, then you just carry on with your questing, or you can ask that player again in 5 minutes.



If the player accepts, red swords will be placed above both of your heads to show that your are dueling, and cannot be injured by anything but each other.



Once you are in *combat mode with your enemy, you will fight to the death. Any spells can be used, and there are only two rules..



-If you run a certain amount of distance away from your opponent, the duel will be disbanded.

-No potions can be used when you are in duel mode.



If you eliminate your opponent, you get a pop-up box with another two option. They read:



"Take 100 gold from _____ as a reward"

"Let ____ go for free"



Most players will take option 1. Option 2 is only used if the player you show mercy, and are already rich. To end of this diary entry, I would like to point out that anytime during your duel, you can beg for mercy, and if the other player accepts, you just go on questing.









Sports
Posted on 12/30/02 by Reptile


I have an interesting topic to address here. Will There be Sports in World of Warcraft? Say Football or Soccer? Maybe there could be games between to clans/guilds? There could be games for money, games for items. There could be a grand tournament for a grand prize and massive bragging rights. There could be say a common green in all the cities of the World of Warcraft and on game day they could come out before the game and paint lines out then there could be a games. This if added to the world would be a huge gain because there could be massive turnout bringing people to a city which would get shops better known and ect. Also there could stands set up around the field where people could sell food and make money. Maybe you can buy large field in World of Warcraft? Say a clan owns a Soccer field and hosts a large tournament. They could charge a fee for teams to enter there tournament and then say fifty percent goes to the winner and the other half the guild could keep. They also could charge a small few for spectators to come and watch which the money could be dived the same way. I think this would be a awesome addition to World of Warcraft and make it more life like. They could also have other tournament such as dart throwing? What would be nicer that to be grand Drat player of the World of Warcraft? There could be board games and other things maybe they would be set up in taverns where people could play a game while eating and having a friendly talk. I think this would be so awesome for the World of Warcraft. I would love watching my Clan/Guild go out and challenge another clan to a game but I would love it even more to play in them game and create a name for myself . What to you all thing about this topic? I love the
idea

Just Imagine the anoucers voice...

And here we are in the great World of Warcraft Soccer Bowl playing for the Championship and the 100k grand prize to the winner team. Now back to the action. The game is tied 2 to 2 and the ball is passed into Reptile and he dribbles down the field. 30 seconds on the clock. He jukes a defender. Passes the ball to King. King fines his way past two Defenders. Passes the ball back to Reptile. 10 on the clock. He dribbles to the goal. 8... He prepares to shoot. 7... a defend come from the rear 6... he shakes him 5... dribbles in a bit more 4... He Shoots! 3...m Ball in the Air 2... Hits the Goalies hands. 1... BUT bounces to the left, hits the side of the goal and bounces in! 0... Clan Dragon Wins! Clan Dragon Wins!! Simply Amazing!!

....Oh, oh, where am I must of drifted off... 










[GShif] Hi Everybody,
[GShif] Members of the World of Warcraft Development team are going to being introducing some new things that we'll be discussing about the game.
[GShif] Please note...
[GShif] that we are asking that nobody run a live chat log during the chat. We will...
[GShif] email the chat log to you after the chat. Until then, please don't post information text or summary from the chat.
[GShif] Without further ado...
[GShif] I'll turn the floor over to the WoW Dev Team.
[WoWDevTeam-1] Hello everyone, today we are going to be fielding general quesitons and talking about a few new features...
[WoWDevTeam-1] On the table today are skills, mounts, instancing, combat, and anything else y'all want to discuss.


[WoWDevTeam-1] So in brief our skill system is comprised of class skills and secondary skills...
[WoWDevTeam-1] Class skills are abilities we consider integral to who a character is. For example, core to a Warrior is the ability to use swords, maces, axes, and such.
[WoWDevTeam-1] These skills are developed in two ways: by leveling and through usage.
[WoWDevTeam-1] Your level determines your potential and then usage determines your actual proficiency.
[WoWDevTeam-1] As for secondary skills, they are more general purpose and will allow players to uniquely flavor their characters.


[WoWDevTeam-1] Now for some questions.
[Bridenbecker] Is it possible to establish guilds in WoW with your own guild halls, emblems and such?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Absolutely. Socializing is a huge part of this type of game and a large part of that revolves around the creation of guilds.
[WoWDevTeam-1] Guildmembers will be able to uniquely identify themselves through the use of Guild Tabbards...
[WoWDevTeam-1] These Tabbards are worn over your armor and through the use of color and emblem will uniquely identify guilds and their members.
[WoWDevTeam-1] As for guild houses... player housing is in the plan and guild houses are a part of that.


[Bridenbecker] Will the skills be in a skill tree, such as in Diablo II?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Nope, no skill trees...
[WoWDevTeam-1] Instead, spread across the world will be various skill trainers. Many skills will have prerequisite skills or minimum levels, but there is no skill tree as such.


[Bridenbecker] Will any spells from the Warcraft or Diablo series be carried into WoW?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Oh ya... many, many of the spells from the WarCraft series will be available in World of Warcraft.


[Bridenbecker] Are there any plans to make guilds more dynamic, or easier to govern?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Hmmm. Not sure exactly what you mean by more dynamic, but I'll throw out a few more details and see if this helps...
[WoWDevTeam-1] We are planning web site support for listing key stats of the various guilds...
[WoWDevTeam-1] and we are planning fairly extensive Guild Master and Guild Officer commands for viewing and managing membership... whether members are online or not. .


[Bridenbecker] Will the setting of WoW, for example, Azeroth, Kalimdor, etc., be the same as Warcaraft III?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Yes, the world is largely based on the known geography of WarCraft...
[WoWDevTeam-1] From Khaz Modan to Kalimdor, from Azeroth to Lordaeron, you'll be able to live in the world you are familar with.


[Bridenbecker] Will quests provide adequate experience and/or items that will substitute for combat?
[WoWDevTeam-1] This is a great question. We view questing as an area that Morgs have only begun to develop...
[WoWDevTeam-1] So the direct answer to the question is: Yes, we are planning a vast number of quests, that provide meaningful amounts of experience and lots of good loot.
[WoWDevTeam-1] We are planning a Quest Log that will track currently assigned quests and one of our goals is that the log is pretty much never empty.


[Bridenbecker] Can you discuss the monster AI?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Well, this is still in flux but we can mention a few things...
[WoWDevTeam-1] We are planning a higher level, group AI that allows the leader of a group of monsters to direct the group's behavior.
[WoWDevTeam-1] For example, a group of Gnolls, lead by a Taskmaster, might decide to sic a couple of Brutes on your Warrior and a Brute on your healer and a fourth on your Mage.


[Bridenbecker] Will there be mounts in the game, and if so, will they be unique to the races?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Good question. Yes, we are planning on a variety of mounts...
[WoWDevTeam-1] For example, we have Humans riding around on Horses and Orcs on Wolves.
[WoWDevTeam-1] Also, in some rare cases, player's who choose to specialize in riding will be able to ride mounts normally reserved for other races.
[WoWDevTeam-1] Just to be explicit, mounts will be player controlled and will be a great way for mid to high level characters to travel the world.


[Bridenbecker] How will you avoid player camping and kill stealing?
[WoWDevTeam-1] This is one of the big problems of Morgs today. Here's our plan:
[WoWDevTeam-1] Many of the areas of our world are instanced...
[WoWDevTeam-1] meaning that you and your friends can enter an instance that is essential a private copy of a section of the world.
[WoWDevTeam-1] that being said, this is a social game, and too much instancing can be a bad thing. So large portions of the world are not instanced.
[WoWDevTeam-1] Some player collision is good. It gives people an opportunity to make new friends.
[WoWDevTeam-1] The key is that if you get to a location and find it 'camped' that you always have somewhere to go. Private instances guarantees there will always be somewhere for you to hunt in peace.


[Bridenbecker] How does combat work?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Hmmm. Let's start by discussing what it is not.
[WoWDevTeam-1] It is not a 'click-fest' or a 'potion-fest'. These are questions we see frequently so we want to clarify that.
[WoWDevTeam-1] Player's will initiate combat with a simple click on a creature...
[WoWDevTeam-1] then go into Combat Mode. While in combat mode, the character automatically continues swinging at the target creature...
[WoWDevTeam-1] then to mix things up, the player will get to time a host of special moves and of course magical spells.
[WoWDevTeam-1] As for potions, they do exist in our game, and are more abundant than in most other Morgs. We think consumable items are interesting when properly balanced.


[Bridenbecker] How is death handled in the game?
[WoWDevTeam-1] The trick with death is to make it painful enough so that player's respect the world but not so painful that it is overly frustrating...
[WoWDevTeam-1] we want people to explore and we want people to be heroic...
[WoWDevTeam-1] when you die, you will resurrect at your last bind site, with all of your items intact...
[WoWDevTeam-1] there will be some form of penalty, but we haven't settled on exactly what that will be just yet.


[Bridenbecker] Can you discuss multi-user spells?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Ah, we mentioned those a long time ago, but haven't really discussed them recently...
[WoWDevTeam-1] we call multi-user spells 'Rituals'. The idea here is that a group of casters would need to get together to cast a Ritual.
[WoWDevTeam-1] We're not prepared just yet to discuss the specifics of what these will do, but rest assured, they're mighty nice.


[Bridenbecker] Will there be class specific items in the game?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Yes.


[Bridenbecker] Will there be ranged weapons and can Dwarves use guns?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Yes. We have bows, crossbows, and... guns! Warcraft just wouldn't be Warcraft without Dwarves running around shooting stuff.


[Bridenbecker] When will we hear from Brann again?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Well, Brann has gone missing in fact... and one of the quests in the game will be to discover what has happened to him.
[WoWDevTeam-1] Instead of Brann's updates we are going to a whole new Web Site. It should be up in the next couple of weeks and will contain a ton of new information...
[WoWDevTeam-1] new screen shots, new FAQ, and a beautiful new format.


[GShif] Hi Everybody, we only have about 5 minutes left, so please type in your last questions for the chat now.


[Bridenbecker] How large is the party size for players?
[WoWDevTeam-1] The current party size is 5. This allows us to balance the game in such a way that every member of the party is important.
[WoWDevTeam-1] Beyond the standard group we have the ability to link groups to form super-groups.
[WoWDevTeam-1] These super-groups will allow players to tackle tougher monsters, split xp, split loot, and generally have a good time raiding together.


[Bridenbecker] Is there a way to finish the game? How long can we play?
[WoWDevTeam-1] Well, in fact there is no real way to finish the game...
[WoWDevTeam-1] we will have storylines that player's can follow through to completion but the world is such a giant toy that there will always be hundreds of things to do.
[WoWDevTeam-1] On top of that, our live team will continually add new quests, new items, and new lands to explore, so the game really never does finish.


[GShif] Ok, everybody. Looks like 6:00 got here faster than we expected. There was a lot of new information here, and we'll be emailing you all the log shortly. Thanks very much for participating today. Sorry we couldn't get to all of your questions, but...
[GShif] please stay tuned and look for emails from me in the future. We'll be in contact to discuss the next chat, and of course, we expect to be discussing the game with the press a bit more following this chat. Thanks again and good night!
[WoWDevTeam-1] Thanks everyone.









Dwellings
Posted on 12/26/02 by Reptile


Now I understand that Blizzard is holding back a lot of information from the public, which is good because we don't want them releasing ideas then finding out they wont work and not making them.

Anyway...

I am wondering what is going to happen with dwellings and how they will work. I have recently been reading up on some forums in familiar sites and from the joint ideas this is what I believe

Houses should NOT be give just to "hang out" in and just sit there. I think a house should for fill these needs

1) They should be built by the owner or some players could be house builders that way every house would be unique. Players should only be able to own one house but be able to add rooms, for a price. For example people who where extremely wealthy could build massive house and say use it as a hotel?
2)Houses should be used for storage. People should be able to go furniture stores and by dressers and cabinets and ect. Also the could by Chairs Coaches and other. They also should be able to make furniture and craft things from wood themselves to make house truly unique.
3)Also I believe that house should be customized by decoration such as paintings and sculptures. Even players can paint there walls by buying paint and painting there own walls and furthermore customizing there house.
4)Regeneration. This I believe is a major use for houses. Say for example you regenerate 15HP a minute but you went in a every day house you gained 16HP a minute. Then when people built larger more elaborate houses, decorated them more, and had more furniture there HP would gain even faster to say 1 more HP per painting or furniture or ect. But I think there has to be some sort of way from stopping people from just drawing a line on a paper over and over for a thousand pictures and hang them up for rapid regeneration and that's not cool. Also regeneration should be faster if say you sit on a couch or chair and some chairs are more special than others causing fast regeneration.
5)Kitchens should also be in house where people could go out and say hunt a deer, get the deer, and then bring it home to cook. Sure eating the meat rare would add health but say you took it home and cooked it became more nutritious and people could specialize in cooking and there food could be very powerful.
6)Bedrooms should be where the most secret and valuable items are kept for a player. Also say when you log out you go to your bed and sleep. Sleeping should be where you regenerate and it also would speed the time up.
7)Bind Point. Houses should be the bind point for charters that way if they die they show up in there house where they can pick up some extra items they been storing in case they died.
8)Also there should be mail. I think your mail would be delivered to your house which would have an Address. Now I don't think houses should be needed to retrieve mail say you could rent a post office box.

Well this is what i think houses should have and although i could probally type more i better stop befor i bor you all to death.

Tell me what ya think :-)

-Reptile- 








 	
	
The Izsera: Orc Society
Posted on 12/14/02 by Ishar Morrad Chuain


The Izsera by Ishar (Ared) and edited by AzN-|)ragon


For a few weeks now, I have been silent. I have been pondering over and over what to write. Well, at last I’ve found a topic that seems to intrigue me. I want to write about Orcish Society. I want to focus especially on their societal structure from before the Kil’jaeden’s Corruption but I will refer to it from time to time. So with much of these knowledge hidden away in a vault somewhere, most of this work would be highly speculative, but this will not be an aimless task rather I would use certain visual clues and known behaviors of the Orc and hopefully come out with something not far from the actual truth.

A great start would be to focus on the economy of pre-Corruption Orcish Society because economies usually represent the worldview of a certain cultural perspective. Now before we continue, I’d like to point out what economy really is. Economy isn’t all about the money; more to the point economy is actually the way man attains a living everyday. So therefore, you have Market economies in which man makes a living by an exchange of services and economies and hunting-gathering economies where man makes a living by hunting pigs and harvesting root crops. Given that what kind of economy would fit into the Orcish mindset?

Well, this would be my first major debunking of an Orcish thought. Most people will immediately assume that the Orcs fall into a hunter-gathering economy typeset. They would assume that since the Orcs follow a shamanistic way of life and therefore primitive, the Orcs follow a way of life that would involve hunting and gathering food to survive. True, shamanism has links to most hunter-gatherer societies but it’s not totally inherent to that form of economic subsistence strata. Rather by looking at the visual clues that Blizzard presents to us, one would determine that the Orcs follow a more contemporary economic structure. I believe the Orcs practice what is called now as pastoralism. Many of you would wonder what this is but to make it easier for you to understand, pastoralism is the insular method of keeping animals, or to be having a more of a layman’s understanding, pastoralism is shepherding. (The author is assuming that people are groaning now and deciding on not reading this article, but the author still implores you to follow him on this quest of discovery.)

Yes, Shepherding. Your thoughts come to green pastures, and sheep being chased by a dog named Lassie…that would be an accurate view of an example of a pastoralist society. Your next question would probably ask, if the Orcs are so warlike, then why do I say they indulge in such a peaceful livelihood? Peaceful is hardly the term. (This would be my cue to segway to explaining the link between war and sheep.)

You see war and sheep (not to be confused…pastoralism is herding of any form of animal, not just sheep) have long been linked together in a vicious cycle for a long time. To better explain this let’s go take a look at our own Earth’s history, War or the concept of large scale battles between civilizations, frequently occurs in two types of civilizations, one that practices agriculture and one that practices pastoralism. It would occur to you that almost all the great civilizations are either agricultural or pastoralists in nature. Case in point, you have Egypt, Mesopotamia and China as agriculturists while Mongolia, Semites and most of Sub-Saharan Africa are pastoralists (America can be described as both). This happens because these civilizations create a continuous food source, hence spurring population growth and therefore making that civilization have a higher survival rating. This creation of a continuous food source occurs because of scarcity in a region, so the people must have a reliable means of survival that they do by inventing farms or herding animals. Broad-based economies on the other hand like hunting-and-gathering societies live in areas that automatically provides resources for the people, thus removing the option of making their own continuous food source because the need for food isn’t there. Also broad based economies tend to stagnate and have no desire to expand because food isn’t scarce. That’s why broad based economies occur in forests while agriculture and pastoralism happens in “hard” environs like deserts or plains.

Now we go on to the link between war and sheep. You see the above civilizations (agriculture and pastoralism) are very successful. With a continuous supply of food, you get a virtual population explosion. And with more people with the same cultural identity, you therefore have a stronger civilization than other civilizations. But there are problems. With great populations, comes great responsibility. Since these civilizations occur on “hard” environs, every time there’s a population spurt there would be an equal strain on the resources (where p is population spurt and r is resources then therefore p=r, ps I hate math). So these civilizations have two options…to remain in their places and starve to death… or expand to places with more resources. It’s safe to imagine that the successful civilizations chose to expand rather than die. And that starts the wars.

A good way to examine this is though the use of a story. There’s a sheepherder who makes a living out of raising sheep. His work is very important because most of his town’s food supply comes from mutton, if some accident falls on his sheep, then the people would starve. So through the years he feed the people with his sheep and the people back by providing everything he needs. But the problem is, the people went sex crazy and procreated like rabbits on Viagra. The people need more food so the shepherd gets more sheep. The problem is the shepherd has a pasture 10 miles wide and more sheep needs a pasture that is twenty miles wide. So the shepherd looks for more pasture so his sheep can graze. It so happens that the adjoining land has that ten extra more miles of land but it so happens that another town owns it. So the devious sheepherder starts a war between the two towns because he knows his town would win because it has more people in it plus his people are better fed than the other town. So he gets the land and he feeds his people. And that is why sheep and war are connected. (The same applies for corn and war, rice and war and cows and war.)

This is also the primary reason why most hunting-gathering societies are wiped out. You see in this exorable march towards the survival of civilization, the smaller civilizations are gobbled up. So what are left are these expanding bubbles of pastoralist or agriculturist civilizations. And that is the first clue of determining who the Orcs are. As the most successful civilization on Draenor, they have to be one of these two kinds of civilization.

The second clue is the look and shape of their weaponry. Rarely do they use hunting implements. They use weaponry such as heavy bladed swords and axes. All of which are suitable for killing another being for the sake of killing and not for food. Hence, they have weapons that are fit for fighting a war not hunting animals. If it were a hunting-and-gathering society they would have spears or arrows (The envenomed spears that the Wyvern Riders use are a modern adjustment to a relatively new science of Orcish Flight.). This occurrence happens in either a pastoralist or an agriculturist setting, again pointing the Orcs to that line of thinking.

But what defines the Orcs as pastoralist rather than agricultural are the other visual clues that Blizzard gives to us. First, their ability to domesticate a lot of animals is a good visual pointer. Although Wyverns don’t count to some extent since Wyverns are sentient, wolves and Kodo Beasts do. They seem to have an uncanny knack of being able to tame these wild animals and to use them to their advantage that is pretty much what pastoralism is supposed to be. Secondly, to be able to conquer the whole of Draenor, you need a very mobile army that’s why you Orcish structures tend to be temporary affairs (their made of wood and hides) because an Orcish Army has to move a lot. Pastoralism enables you to have that because your food walks with you. Agriculture can’t do that for you because you have to get established positions to farm and when you bring your food along when you go crusading; your food tends to rot whilst your food is a walking pig that eats grass pretty much solves all your food needs.

Ah well, in any case, the discussion about pastoralism and the Orcs are ending and we need to move on to Gender issues and stuff but you might wonder why the Orcs mine gold. Well the answer is simple. Since gold has a universal value (almost every culture on earth value gold) the Orcs would also esteem gold. In fact, the first use of gold as a true currency involved cows. In ancient China, a transaction occurred though heads of cattle but since cattle was so difficult to transfer, they used a gold coin to represent one head of cattle. Hence, gold is very much valuable to a pastoralist society. In any case, before we leave this topic, a good reminder of the intense similarities between Orcish pastoralism and Earth pastoralism is the existence of historical records of a small pastoralist nation that would end up ruling half of the world. Mongolia.

Moving on to gender issues is a rather difficult analytical question. It’s primarily because you find so little views of the female Orcs. In fact, most of the contact we have with female Orcs come from one that is half human, Garona. One thing I can be sure is that the Hordes have a primarily patriarchal society because almost every war chief of the clan has been male. Also most warriors within the Orcish Horde are also male. Also one can suggest that the Orcs are probably monogamous. For one thing, if they weren’t, then Thrall wouldn’t have been war chief. In all probability, what happens with polygamous relationships is a dearth of children and with most political systems that value lineage (like the Orcs who continually refer to Thrall’s father) a lot of children would have created power struggles between siblings. You almost don’t see this in Orcish strata and the power squabbles are usually against rival clan chiefs or other power institutions. Secondly, if it were a polygamous relationship then Thrall would have been born much earlier and Ogrim Doomhammer would have adult children by then because polygamous systems tend to cause the males to marry early.

A concept I’ve been mulling over is that females are probably the herders of the Orcs. They are the ones who guide their flocks of pigs/sheep/beasts as their men are the ones who defend against raids and such from rival clans. Since the men are pretty busy with their fighting, the natural position of economic producer falls to the women. Again this is pretty much speculative since because we find so little of the women folk from the Orcs. I feel this part of the analysis is severely lacking, but with the lack of information I sadly can’t continue on with this part, but what we can do is go on to politics and religion.

Pretty much, politics and religion are interlaced. In fact, in many societies they are one and the same. Why? Well the first reason is that for politics to work, the people must follow you. Some leaders use force, some use the vote, others use money (to tell you the truth, it's stupid to give out money to impress people) but probably the most successful one is to just to tell the people that the great big guy (or the great big guys/gals) in the sky loves you. Some go even further and tell you that they are the great big guy/gal. In fact, this is the foundation of almost all monarchical establishments. What this means is that, at some point or another, religion reinforces the political establishment. Another factor is that religion tends to dictate norms and ethical values of society. The Ten Commandments would come to mind. If a leader, then does something that religion deems unethical, the leader loses a significant part of the people's trust (although luckily for Henry the VIII, he already had enough power to enforce his rule and made his own religion). Given that, onwards to the Orcish.

Blizzard practically handed it to us by saying it was shamanism. In essence, shamanism is based on a belief that spirits guide the happenings of the world of reality. Theses spirits can interact with the living world and most of the time the living world cannot interact with these spirits though there would be special people who can contact these spirits and gain their favor, hence the Shamans. A good way of illustrating this was Kil’jaeden was technically a great spirit from the twisting nether who contacted the Shaman Ner’zhul. In all probability, they actually had these powers (speaking in terms of the World of Warcraft, of course) since what they actually did was use the spirits to help them in battle. For example, one can say that the shaman was imbuing grunts with the spirit of ferocity by inciting a bloodlust, or one can also say that he was purging a person of spirits when he removes the person from contact from the spirit world. I also think that the Orcish Shamans had a strong knowledge of herb lore since most shamans on earth have shown that talent. In fact, they might have used psychotropic herbs to enhance their contact with the spirit world. But evidently, that is not the only parts where Shamans take influence.

The question now lies on where Orcish Religion influences Orcish Politics. The answer is simple. Orcish Religion is Orcish Politics. First evidence of this is the apparent influence of Ner'zhul. He was probably a great leader to be able to convince the Orcs to become the Horde (although the taint from Kil'jaeden probably helped). Secondly, you notice from the first invasion by the Horde of Azeroth, the steady and guiding influence of the Shadow of Council, which was led by a Warlock (he was a shaman before the Corruption), Gul'dan. It may be plausible that most of the members of the Shadow Council were Shamans turned Warlocks. But you ask what of the war chief then? Evidence suggests that war chief in Pre-Corruption Orcs was probably a position like that of a general or war leader. So when raids occurred, the War chief takes over from where the Shaman leaves out. You will find something similar in most Earth societies especially in Medieval Japan. But the change from being just a general, to the ersatz leader of the Orcs came as Orcish society transformed into the Horde. As the whole civilization was for military conquest, so does the qualities of leaders change. An interesting thought though is the fact that Thrall bridged the gap between the two positions. Thrall is both a shaman and a war chief.

From thereon, you’re imagination takes over. It does paint a picture of a proud and noble race guiding their herd animals through the plains of Draenor, and looking up at the stars like the rest of us.

The Author has studied BA Anthropology. Unfortunately, he got kicked out of university for shooting a monkey in Primatology. 






Why Ban Feral Races from Players?
Posted on 12/10/02 by Troll_Shadowhunter


While in some cases I could understand that something doesn't qualify as a /race/ (like Vampire, Dreadlord, Succubus, etc.)

Just in Warcraft III alone we know we have Human, Dwarf, Gnome, High Elf, Orc, Troll, Tauren, Goblin, Night Elf, Ogre, Furbolg, Quillboar, Kobold, Murloc and Gnoll that would all make wonderful PC races. They are all humanoid in shape, each is distinct from one another, every one could wield the same weapons and wear the same armor. One can have a player be a Gnoll and a player be an Elf without the same balancing issues as someone playing a Dragon and someone playing an Elf. And certainly there are people out there who would play all of these. On top of this, characters could also go Chaos or Undead.

However, out of these 15 race, half of them are NOT going to be playable. Not from the release anyway, which probably means never.

Now, I don't know how many played EverQuest, but one of the things that I hated most about the game was that I could not play the races I wanted. They existed, they were out there and hordes of mobs with classes.

But while I could choose between /3/ Elf races or /3/ Human races; I could NOT be a goblin. I could NOT be a Murloc. I could NOT be a Kerran. I could NOT be an Orc... and EverQuest is finishing up now and it never changed.

I simply won't be World of Warcraft if it comes out and I can be one of /3/ Elf races or a Dwarf or a Human or a Gnome or a Halfling(which don't exist in Warcraft, but will probably be made up just so the feral races won't be used) or a peace-loving Orc or a big hulking cow-man. And yet, no Troll, no Goblin, no Murloc, no Gnoll... and seeing from the very beginning that they don't intend to ever change it.

Perhaps putting out an intitial release of 8 races could be fine. The other 7 could be put on semi-hold, maybe release one every 3 months so that over the span of 2 years the players will be able to have any of the fifteen races from Warcraft III be their player race. Only /once/ this is done add a new Elf or a Halfling type race or a new version of humans that reflect the people who the Orcs thought they wiped out or whatever else might come to mind. 






Why the RTS Genre is boring and unfun
Posted on 12/09/02 by King_of_Dragons


I thought I'd summarize why I think that the RTS genre is boring and unfun into a few key points.


1: You don't build towards anything, like a character. True your account has a level, but it isn't the same thing.

2: Same thing over and over again. Nothing ever new happens, there is nothing to explore.

3: It takes a long time to get really good, and some people don't have this time.

4: No way you can determine someone's skill by their level. It could be a level 1 smurf account.

5: Games require you to pay contant attention. You cannot just "take a break" in the middle of a game. Also, if you play a game, you have to stick around until it is over.

6: Losing makes you depressed. If you're on a losing streak, you get very depressed. Just makes you pissed off. Games are supposed to make you happy, not depressed.

7: If someone lags everyone has to wait for them. If you disconnect via lag you get a loss.

8: Your computer has to be pretty fast to be able to successfully micro during an intense battle. I have lost many a battle due to not being able to click a specific unit (like trying to polymorph a Tauren) due to lower fps (and I have a 1.333 ghz processor with a 64 mb vid card).


(Some of these do not apply to custom (UMS) games, which are still fun IMO.)

I feel that #6 is the most imporant reason I think RTS genre is boring and unFUN. It's just not really worth spending a lot of time in.

Which is why I eagerly await WoW . If you look at all of these and apply it to the MMORPG genra, you'll see that not many apply, and not to the extent of a rts. 







 	
	
The new and exciting Blizzard WoW Site!
Posted on 12/08/02 by Salll


This is most likely old news to most of you. But since this being one of the first articles, it fits well being old.

http://www.blizzard.com/wow/

Got a new web design months ago, and I find this important.
Those of you who haven't seen it yet, please don't bother yourself reading anymore of this and look into it immediately.

Or read ahead about what's waiting you inside ^_^

For ones who don’t know a lot about WoW there are loads of stuff telling. First of all... Shame on you! How could you ever let such an impressive game slip your eyes? *Ahem* Alas, then you've been lucky reading this.

What to find inside the WoW-Official-WebSite:
First of all Screenshots. This might be the simplest way to get indulged in the World of Warcraft.

Later on, when you actually pay attention to what’s going on in there, you can take your time to download...

The Trailer and Ingame movies!
This is so impressive and appealing that I simply must watch them again... brb ... Back ...
If you ever did like the Realm of Diablo, take heed, this is not another Hack'n'Slash game, but an MMORPG! (Now wtf is that?) That is a MassMultiplayerOnlineRolePlayingGame! *Gasp* Just like Everquest.
You will see in the ingame movie how attractive the world is and how lovely the animations are.

Well besides of these two multimedia there are...

The Townhall and Mp3's:
This is basically an information centre for each of the until-now revealed species(also shown at the top of this very site).
Also containing specific screenshots of the races and the different World Locations: Duskwood, Stranglethorn Vale, Elwynn Forest and Westfall.
The World Locations also contain small samples of how the music will be like ingame in Mp3 format.

Besides all this there is the FAQ (frequently asked questions) and their very own forum. Very similar to forum on this website.

Hope I've inspired you enough to wait and sigh for the next bestseller from Blizzard(the one after Starcraft Ghost).

! World of Warcraft ! 








		
	
1.00-Unlock the MMO World
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


Featurettes-Introduction-Chapter 1

As for me. I returned to this world to ensure that there would be a future, to teach the world that it no longer needs guardians. The hope for future generations has always resided in mortal hands.
[Medivh]

What better way to start off a guide to the MMO world than to learn what an MMO is. An MMORPG or Massively Multiplayer Online Roleplaying Game, is a persistant world. MMOs are divided into "Realms". (Also know as Shards or Servers) Every Realm is pysically composed of one or multiple servers. A server, in basic terms, is a computer that hosts the game. Within every Realm is a Persistant World State (PWS for short). What this means is that within each Realm is a world. In our case, a World of Warcraft. Users connect to these Realms, and an Avatar (character) is created. Hundreds of users interact within each of these "Realms" putting the Massive in Multiplayer. Raph Koster and Rich Vogel (Lead Developers of Starwars: Galaxies), professional MMO developers, address the difference between your typical game and one of the MMO genre:

    The content in these games have to last from 6 to 12 months for the average player
    The average life-span of these games is around 5 years
    It is not fire and forget software. The software must be scalable and maintainable for years.
    Client/Server Architecture
    Supporting thousands of players instead of a few
    Environments are huge
    It is a service not a product

Let's look at these shall we?

The content in these games have to last from 6 to 12 months for the average player

MMORPGs, in general, larger, more complex, and require more content than your typical RPG. In an RPG, you travel around the land, saving the world, being the hero, for 20-60 hours. With multiplayer components, many more. In Diablo 2 you could spend hundreds of hours in multiplayers, MMORPGs need to have a large amount of content to keep people amazed, so they will keep paying for it monthly. To do this, leveling is usually slower, and the worlds are much larger. A hard-time leveling keeps players (you guys) attempting to achieve the next level or spell. A large world and lots of content keep people exploring.

The average life-span of these games is around 5 years

MMOs last much longer than most games. I myself know serveral people who played in the Ultima Online beta (1997) and still play UO even now. Many people have become so addicted to Everquest that it is now known to many as "Evercrack" due to its addictiveness.

It is not fire and forget software. The software must be scalable and maintainable for years.

Unlike RPGs, MMOs are not developed for one-time retail sales. MMOs are developed to last many many years. They aren't sold to be a one-time adventure, they are sold to be a year+ game for a monthly fee.

Client/Server Architecture

MMOs are not designed like single player games, they are designed with unique architectures. You can read more about Client/Server Architecture here.

Environments are huge

Compared to other RPG worlds, MMO worlds are huge. Often new players will be lost within an area (Also know As "Zone) for and hour or two, looking for their cities. The easiest way to facilitate such large areas is transportation. The more easy to find transport there is, the more time players can spend in-game without looking for where to go. Blizzard is intending to facilitate this with multiple modes of transportation. Including teleportation scrolls and aerial transport.

It is a service not a product

When you pay monthly for an MMO, you aren't paying for a piece of software. Instead, when you pay for an MMO, you are paying for constant content updates, quality customer service, and balance-changes.


A veteran MMO player will tell you from their experience what an MMO truly is. To their core, MMORPGs, like many other RPGs, are all about achievement. Unlike adventure-driven games, most MMOs are about getting the next item, or hitting the next level. Some MMOs, like Shadowbane or Lineage, are based around PVP (Player Versus Player) Combat. Tabula Rasa, a game being developed by NCSoft, promises to be based around the quest instead of the achievement of the quest. Bill Roper, Vice President of Blizzard had this to say,

I think the other big point is that we want to make sure that people can get on and have some kind of meaningful play experience in a short amount of time. I have a level 50 character right now in Dark Age that I have to know that I'm going to be sitting down for a couple hours before I load him up, because there is nothing left for me to do at that level that takes a small amount of time. And I think that is really the way the games are built. There's nothing wrong with that, but I think there are different paths you can take, as well, that World of Warcraft is focused on. Even if you are a top-level player, you can get online and do something that would mean something to your character. Not get on for 30mins and try to find a group and spend all the time sitting around. There are a lot of ideas going around about how we make the game not only a fun experience for people who are thought of as the "classic massively multiplayer users" where the guy goes on for six, eight, twelve hours straight every night, but also somebody who, on their lunch break, wants to get on and do something with their character. Saying, "Hey, I only have an hour or two a night to play, and I don't want to feel like I'm being left in the dust by everyone else. I want to move my character on at a good pace." I think those are a couple areas that we are really focused on that we feel will separate us out.

It seems that Blizzard has an idea to alter that ideal of "levelfests". Another comment in PCGamer was that player crafted items will be stronger than ones discovered in the wild. Enriching the experience for "crafters" as well, that however is a story for another day.

Primary Source: Koster & Vogel

Also Read: Tackling the MMO World, UGO Interview

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions








1.01-Cheating in the World of Warcraft
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


Featurettes-Introduction-Chapter 2

Cheating in the World of Warcraft

The primary concern of Blizzard fanatics, new to the MMO genre, is cheating. Let's face it, every Blizzard game with an online component so far has been hacked. The most notorious, Diablo, had a number of hacks including Town kills, duping, and character manipulation. Starcraft had map hacks. Diablo 2 had dupe bugs. And even 30 days after release, Warcraft 3 had map hacks and supposedly a drop hack. So, as you can imagine, Blizzard players have a right to worry about paying monthly for a game that may be ruined by a hack. An article from Arena.net explains the client/server architecture of MMOs.

    As you can imagine, setting up a hosted environment is both challenging and expensive. Depending on the popularity of the game, it may involve purchasing hundreds of computers, and operating them in data centers around the world. In addition to buying all the computers and hiring a staff to keep them all running, the game publisher must also pay for all of the bandwidth that they use. Despite the effort and expense, the industry is moving more and more in this direction, because it's the only way to approach the ideal of a cheat-free environment. Examples of games that use a hosted client/server architecture include Diablo II, EverQuest, Ultima Online, Asheron's Call, and Dark Age of Camelot.


    Even when the game developer uses a well-written client/server networking model and controls all of the servers, it is still possible for cheating to occur, simply because games are written by humans, and human programmers will always make subtle mistakes that malicious users can exploit.


    The most notorious type of cheating that takes place in hosted client/server games is item duping: taking a valuable item in your inventory and making an exact copy of it. To do this, players find and exploit a bug in the program. For example, they may try unusual combinations of actions that they don't think anyone has ever tested before, hoping to find something they can do that will crash the game server. If they can find a way to consistently crash the game server then they can often use that knowledge to duplicate items. To do so, they simply hand a valuable item to an accomplice, who then immediately logs off, causing his character to be saved to disk. Then they crash the server before it has an opportunity to save their own character to disk. When the server comes back up, both players should have the item in their inventories.

John "Killer" MacQueen, one of the creators of WW2 Online had this to say about client/server architecture when addressing a speedhack in his game.

    All client server games have both insecure client and insecure data stream.
    We have an advantage in that at least the server is securely in our hands, and we can do much to react and kill hacks. Any of remeber [sic] the speed hack folks used for about a week? Seen half the infantry runing around at mach 2 lately? Same applies to most any hack, the quickest way to get em gone is to make sure we know about any you see so we can kill em quicker.


    Games with the same paradigm we use regarding client/server and placing important things client side are some of the oldest games out there, AW since 1987, Warbirds since 1995, Aces High since 1999, Fighter ace since 1996 all use client side damage etc. just like we do, and all are still playing right along these days.


    What it does for us is a trade off. It allows us to do things that you can't do any other way, and it places much more of a reactionary role on us to kill these hacks when we find them. It's our job, it's nothing new, and we have been dealing with it for years.
    Hacks will happen, we will squash them.

To put it simply, hacks are going to happen. Whether they be duping or speedhacks, or whatever. Inevitably, someone will hack the World of Warcraft. The effect, however, will be significantly dampened by two factors. The first is the client/server architecture of the game. The client/server model allows for easy-alteration and control over the code, and of the hack. This allows Blizzard to swiftly respond to the incursion of hacks. The second is the fact that you are paying Blizzard a monthly fee to deal with these hacks. A "live team" is paid just to cater to you. When a hack threatens your enjoyment, they respond. Why? Because they lose customers if they don't. Serious hacks may hinder new content however, which sucks, but it's a good temporary sacrifice.

How do I deal with hackers?
The best way to deal with hackers on your own level, it to take screenshots and report them to Blizzard, that's all you can really do.

How long do these hacks in MMOs take to fix?
It varies on the hack, but relatively quick in comparison to other genres, MMOs allow for more protection for your character and gaming experience.

What is a rollback?
In the event of serious hacks, Blizzard will probably be able to "rollback" the servers. Every so often, an MMO saves the gamestate. What the player has, his stats, his gold, whatever. So an MMO company will rollback the server a few days, before the serious hack was in place, then give you the patch that eliminates it. Though you lose some game hours, the MMO world's economy is saved. This is the preferred method of fixing dupe bugs, and increases your enjoyment in the end.

What if I am caught hacking?
If you are caught hacking, you will probably be banned or your account will be suspended or wiped.

Primary Source: Arena.net's Hacking Article

Also Read: Tackling the MMO World, Archives of Lum the Mad

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions







1.01-Cheating in the World of Warcraft
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


Featurettes-Introduction-Chapter 2

Cheating in the World of Warcraft

The primary concern of Blizzard fanatics, new to the MMO genre, is cheating. Let's face it, every Blizzard game with an online component so far has been hacked. The most notorious, Diablo, had a number of hacks including Town kills, duping, and character manipulation. Starcraft had map hacks. Diablo 2 had dupe bugs. And even 30 days after release, Warcraft 3 had map hacks and supposedly a drop hack. So, as you can imagine, Blizzard players have a right to worry about paying monthly for a game that may be ruined by a hack. An article from Arena.net explains the client/server architecture of MMOs.

    As you can imagine, setting up a hosted environment is both challenging and expensive. Depending on the popularity of the game, it may involve purchasing hundreds of computers, and operating them in data centers around the world. In addition to buying all the computers and hiring a staff to keep them all running, the game publisher must also pay for all of the bandwidth that they use. Despite the effort and expense, the industry is moving more and more in this direction, because it's the only way to approach the ideal of a cheat-free environment. Examples of games that use a hosted client/server architecture include Diablo II, EverQuest, Ultima Online, Asheron's Call, and Dark Age of Camelot.


    Even when the game developer uses a well-written client/server networking model and controls all of the servers, it is still possible for cheating to occur, simply because games are written by humans, and human programmers will always make subtle mistakes that malicious users can exploit.


    The most notorious type of cheating that takes place in hosted client/server games is item duping: taking a valuable item in your inventory and making an exact copy of it. To do this, players find and exploit a bug in the program. For example, they may try unusual combinations of actions that they don't think anyone has ever tested before, hoping to find something they can do that will crash the game server. If they can find a way to consistently crash the game server then they can often use that knowledge to duplicate items. To do so, they simply hand a valuable item to an accomplice, who then immediately logs off, causing his character to be saved to disk. Then they crash the server before it has an opportunity to save their own character to disk. When the server comes back up, both players should have the item in their inventories.

John "Killer" MacQueen, one of the creators of WW2 Online had this to say about client/server architecture when addressing a speedhack in his game.

    All client server games have both insecure client and insecure data stream.
    We have an advantage in that at least the server is securely in our hands, and we can do much to react and kill hacks. Any of remeber [sic] the speed hack folks used for about a week? Seen half the infantry runing around at mach 2 lately? Same applies to most any hack, the quickest way to get em gone is to make sure we know about any you see so we can kill em quicker.


    Games with the same paradigm we use regarding client/server and placing important things client side are some of the oldest games out there, AW since 1987, Warbirds since 1995, Aces High since 1999, Fighter ace since 1996 all use client side damage etc. just like we do, and all are still playing right along these days.


    What it does for us is a trade off. It allows us to do things that you can't do any other way, and it places much more of a reactionary role on us to kill these hacks when we find them. It's our job, it's nothing new, and we have been dealing with it for years.
    Hacks will happen, we will squash them.

To put it simply, hacks are going to happen. Whether they be duping or speedhacks, or whatever. Inevitably, someone will hack the World of Warcraft. The effect, however, will be significantly dampened by two factors. The first is the client/server architecture of the game. The client/server model allows for easy-alteration and control over the code, and of the hack. This allows Blizzard to swiftly respond to the incursion of hacks. The second is the fact that you are paying Blizzard a monthly fee to deal with these hacks. A "live team" is paid just to cater to you. When a hack threatens your enjoyment, they respond. Why? Because they lose customers if they don't. Serious hacks may hinder new content however, which sucks, but it's a good temporary sacrifice.

How do I deal with hackers?
The best way to deal with hackers on your own level, it to take screenshots and report them to Blizzard, that's all you can really do.

How long do these hacks in MMOs take to fix?
It varies on the hack, but relatively quick in comparison to other genres, MMOs allow for more protection for your character and gaming experience.

What is a rollback?
In the event of serious hacks, Blizzard will probably be able to "rollback" the servers. Every so often, an MMO saves the gamestate. What the player has, his stats, his gold, whatever. So an MMO company will rollback the server a few days, before the serious hack was in place, then give you the patch that eliminates it. Though you lose some game hours, the MMO world's economy is saved. This is the preferred method of fixing dupe bugs, and increases your enjoyment in the end.

What if I am caught hacking?
If you are caught hacking, you will probably be banned or your account will be suspended or wiped.

Primary Source: Arena.net's Hacking Article

Also Read: Tackling the MMO World, Archives of Lum the Mad

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions









1.03-The Other Side
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


The Other Side of Development

Today I want to elaborate on something I've touched on in the past, and one of the goals of this site, to see WoW from various perspectives. Today I want to touch on something, but I must tread very lightly, it is a dark place to which I have never been; a place spoken of myth and legend. I ask you to join me, for but a moment, and look through the eyes of a developer.

First, I suggest you read the "Why you Pay" article. Ok? Great. Now, in case you skipped it, there are a few things which you really should remember. This is an MMO, not a fire-and-forget (the community) gaming program. We, as gamers, are paying THEM for OUR service. As the consumer, it is you that has the power, not them. Finally, it is important to remember that every game company is just that, a company. The ultimate goal is not to give you a good time, or to make sure you have fun. It is to make sure you continue to pay for their service monthly. This sounds quite pessamistic, and I agree that in general developers want you to have fun, but that is not what they are working for. "Game Developer" be it in Art, Public Relations, Programming, Human Resources, or Management, is a job, they are paid to make money, off of you, off of me, off of your overly obsessive friend down the street. Keep this in mind.

As I have mentioned in the past, a Persistent World State (always on, aka MMO) is quite different from the software Blizzard gamers are accustomed to. With a game like Diablo 2, or one of the RTS aspects of the "Craft" series, the goal is to sell the product, get it off the shelves. Blizzard looses money with Battle.net, bandwidth is charged to them whenever data is transfered to or from their server to a home computer. Battle.net is an incentive to rebuy the game if scratched or to appeal to the multiplayer crowd to buy future products. That's what Blizzard typically makes, this is a whole new ballgame boys and girls, an PWS (Persistent World State) is a whole new ballgame.

Every time you toss a twenty (or whatever the "compedative cost") at Blizzard, you are paying them for a service, it works out well for both parties. Unlike battle.net, Blizzard's new network of computers, independant from the battle.net system, are all being paid for by you. I've explained the technical details of why you pay for this, check it out if you haven't. That's well and good, in theory, but the snag that gets in the developmental eye for Blizzard is not how to get people to buy their product, (hell, slap the Blizzard logo on something and it'll sell like hotcakes) but the trick is to keep the people who buy the product.

I present the example of Dark Age of Camelot as an explanation. Dark Age of Camelot was designed to be an evolved Everquest. Better graphics, better gameplay, a haven for those tired of the same old Everquest; it had a fairly good launch, barring a little bit of a poor interface, it was good. Over time however, there became apparent a problem; after a player had achieved the highest level in the game, 50, there was nothing to do. For most people, the Realm versus Realm combat was satisfying for a time, but that eventually grew old; many people left DAoC never to return. Only recently, with the new expansion coming out, is the problem being remedied.

The problem is KEEPING the gamers through content. This is only achievable in two ways, difficulty or content. You are a developer. You want to keep them paying, but you have to keep a goal dangling above their heads. A metaphorical carot looming ever over the view of the horse that is the playerbase. Now, what are the options?

In one hand, you can make the game difficult to attain achievement. The harder it is to "level up" through experience, the longer you have to put in more content. With this option, the carot never needs to change, you take the content you already have, and just make it longer for players to reach all of it. This is what many traditional MMO games try, it takes a very long time to achieve a level, and even more-so later on. For those of you who play Diablo 2, imagine that long times three. I can't really comment on WoW, but that's what traditionally happens. If it is too hard to achieve, a game will get frustrating and players will quit however, so this cannot be too extreme.

On the other hand, you have content. MMOs are very dynamic, world capable of change easier than your commonplace RPG. They have to be. Your fanbase is PAYING for this new content, paying you to make new stuff for them to find, so that they will be more enticed to pay yet another month of fees. After all, that is what paying monthly is partially for, to add new content, to keep you, the player interested. Works out well for both sides, doesn't it? New content can take shape in new lands to explore, new monsters, new items, new abilities, or an unfolding and enticing storyline. But content is harder to produce than simply heightening the difficulty of achievement.

The goal is to make money, money off of you. The more, the better, that is the strength behind MMOs, they can rake in a great deal of cash, the goal of any company. The more the better. I promise you that content will be updated more frequently than that of former Blizzard games. Not because of the money you HAVE given them, but for the money you WILL give them. It is their obligation, their part of the deal, that they keep you interested. When that ceases, then that's simply it, the cashflow stops. It is, for the very first time, truly important to Blizzard that they keep their game balanced and interesting. That's reality, and that is a minor glimpse into the other side of the pearl picket fence.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions
	
	









 	
	
1.04-A World of Achievement
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


A World of Achievement

Achievement is the driving factor behind the Warcraft World. You collect items to achieve, you go on quests to achieve, you explore, buy, and sell to achieve. You build houses, obtain mounts, and gain experience to achieve. Achievement is the reason you game, there are no Seinfelds of gaming, every game has a purpose. To build a village, to be a hero, to save the world, to destroy the world, it's all achievement. Today we explore the world of achievement in the world of Warcraft. Buckle up.

Character Achievement

It all depends on a few simple choices, which folds into an elaborate, and unique character, your avatar, you manifested within the game world. Be you a Mage of renowned kindness or a Warrior following a black path of dark salvation within oblivious death. It all begins with a choice, a single choice to which all things begin, what manner of creature are you? Be you a Human, the gamely symbol of mediocrity? A Tauren, big and strong with a heart and mind of gold? Perhaps you are a dwarf, Stout and ever-ready to face the dangers of the world with a little taste of Scottish humor? Or perhaps one of the others. It determines where you start in the world, who you first encounter, and what you are as a class.

Your class is the more subtle definition of you, as defined by your race. A class is what you start as, or what you hope to be. You start off in Warcraft as a basic class, such as a Warrior. As the Warrior Class, you grow and develop as a Warrior, learning your trade in fighting with some weapons such as Swords, Axes, Maces, ect.

When you "level up" (through experience) your character, you gain access to skills, (aka abilities). These skills can manifest themselves in a number of ways, such as combat skills, magical abilities, or misc stuff. You learn skills from teachers, NPC (Non-Player-Characters) who can give you one or more skills or spells when you are ready to learn them. Perhaps requiring some task, money, or maybe just free. This of course, will have limits, you must be a certain level to learn them. When you develop to a certain point, you can choose a sub-class. Such a class may be something like a Paladin (not official). Not only a Warrior, but a Warrior who can use divine energy to help and heal himself and others.

Your class also determines what kind of items you can wear. Where Warriors may be able to don anything they want, wizards may be restricted to specific low-defensive armors or robes. Your class and race determine you, both externally and internally.

Character Achievement is one of the main purposes of gaming, especially MMOs. Becoming stronger, better, or more magical. To gain that much-wanted level, that new skills, that item you've had in your inventory but weren't high enough a level to use. That kewl new breastplate you picked up at the store. Getting stuff to make your character better, that's the primary goal of lot of MMOs. That's also the complaint of a lot of veteran MMO'ers. Some MMOs just become about kill monster-get better stuff-repeat. It's a shame.

Adventure Achievement

For some people, the means is more important than the end. It is not the achievement, but the adventure that is the true reward. Perhaps this is lost on us, in our fast-paced world of immediate gratification. The memories we gain through adventuring in WoW will be more important to us than the thought of a specific weapon. There will always be a newer, better, shinier weapon, the old ones discarded and lost. But the adventures we take are more memorable, killing Stranglethorn the Treant, pulling an all-nighter to collect the parts to the staff of Argoth-Rah and finding the right crafter to meld it into a potent magical staff. Yes, our values are truly messed up. If you've played Diablo 2 for example, can you name 5 weapons you had and used? Can you remember killing Mephisto? Which one came easier to you? Adventure is truly the lost aspect of achievement.

Plot Achievement

This is probably something you've heard before. Plot Achievement is a success which generates a significant change in the Warcraft World. Perhaps you and your clan destroy the Lich manipulating the minds of the leaders in the Warcraft world. Perhaps assembling a piece of a big gnomish "ShieldwhichisusedtoprotectthelandsofthefreeraceslimitedtoAzeroth" that was being built to protect Azeroth. It's a big achievement that effects the entire game world.

Social Achievement

You play and pay for an MMO for a reason, right? That reason is because of the huge world-like environment it presents. Social Achievement is something that reflects on you, not your character. How well you are liked by people sharing in the WoW experience. Perhaps through your clan, perhaps to patrons of the bar you are intending to make outside of Khaz-Modan. To be popular, to be liked, to be funny, to be famous, to be loved in all matters, to be thought of as wise, to be thought of as reliable, or to be thought of as one scary son-of-a-bitch. It's about a reputation, or being thought of as someone without one. To gain reputation through actions and words is as great an achievement as any quest, item, or skill. As I write this I actually realize now that I am as active as I am in the Blizzard community as active as most people are in certain communities of games as I am in games for the same reason, achievement. Perhaps that is why hardcore gamers are deep in communities, because the void of achievement in not only filled in-game, but also within the community.

Conclusion

Achievement is why gamers play. It is the motivating force behind the games, it is the fundamental truth behind activeness in communities. Whether you are in a community to achieve a difference, or reputation, it's all achievement. Whether you are in a game for adventure, plot, or character, you are doing so for achievement. It is the motivating force behind developers, to optimize achievement, to hook gamers on being better, more popular, or achieved moments and experiences in their memories. It is the achievement that makes us buy these games, it is the achievement that makes us spend our money. It is achievement that makes us live, makes us learn, makes us earn money, makes us hate death. It is achievement you pay for, not a game. And it is achievement you obtain when you participate in these communities. Should we pay monthly for what we strive for our entire lives and each day? Is it worth it to you? That is what you must ask. Are you addicted to the achievement of games? If you are, then you are, indeed a gamer.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions









 	
	
1.05-The Fine Art of Macromancy
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


The Fine Art of Macromancy

A macro in the broadest sense is a, Series of keyboard, mouse actions, and/or other computer steps recorded to be run quickly and easily. Macros are commonly created for operations that are commonly performed on a computer. Using a macro allows a user to quickly perform a operation with a press of a key or the execution of a command.

Where this may be helpful in writing applications or in an office environment, a Macro in the MMO world is a very dangerous word, in the league of cheating even.

Macro'ing

JargonFile has a more precise definition in the context of MMOs.

A macro works just like it does in real world applications. A list of commands is put together and then bound to a keystroke or code word. When this key is pressed or code is entered the command list is excuted. eg. I can write a macro that causes my character to cast a series of spells or perform some combat moves in succession.

That, in itself isn't totally horrid, though it is quite cheap. Saving time casting spells or using abilities at just the right times, it saves effort, but really degrades the game. WoW especially is made for large scale multi-enemy battles and such, making a macro quite cheap since it suppose to be an adventure, not a one-button fix. But that's not the true danger. No, the true danger lies in the Trigger-Macros, that's when the World of Warcraft really reaches a low point.

Triggering the Unmentionable

A trigger macro takes this one step futher in that the macro is excuted not by a keystroke or code word but by an event in-game eg. My character is attacked so he/she/it automatically casts an armor spell.

Imagine standing near a monster spawn all day, as soon as you are attacked, your character automatically launches into an attack, kills the monster, and waits (regenerating in the mean time) for the next monster to spawn. Still worse is WoW's instanced zones, private realities for each player. How will Blizzard's employees monitor all of these and still know if it is a macro, or a real player?

Uberblek!

You know, a macro is unfair. Whereas a normal player has to invest time and energy into a character to make him proud, a macro player could just jump into an instanced zone and go watch a movie just to come back to a character who has gained a level. It takes away the fun of the game for both the macro'er and those who must tolerate it. It could happen folks, it's not like Diablo 2 where monsters are in set locations and you walk to them. In MMOs, they can just "spawn" infront of you or walk up to you, this is quite a serious issue if not addressed by Blizzard. Hopefully it will be.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions










		
	
1.06-Waiting for Warcraft
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


Waiting for Warcraft!

It was once said of literature that a peice of writing is never completed, it is simply abandoned. This holds particularly true for the gaming industry. A game's development is never completed, it is simply abandoned. A game, in the purest essence, can always be made better, it can always be optimized more, it can always have more content put into it. But companies really don't have a choice, they are forced to abandon their work, financial reasons often play a part, as does timing in correlation to other games, as does technology. Sometimes, to compete, a company will purposely put a date on their game that corresponds in front of another game so that gamers won't have enough to buy the game that comes out a week later. Or, in this fast-paced world, you need to get your game out the door because you don't want to be outdated technology wise or have your fans say, "Well, I would, but such and such a game is coming out, and it has better graphics.

That's the good thing about an MMO, it's never abandoned. There are always new updates in patches, afterall, you pay for them. Though the "development" team moves on (perhaps to another game, perhaps to another expansion), the "live team" takes its place and continues to develop conent for the game. That's all well and good, but let's get back to the development for a moment.

Let us talk of things such as content, shall we. I'm going to define content as "stuff in the game". Content can take form in items, monsters, NPCs, quests, zones, ect. An MMO just out of the box, day one, never patched, can never have as much content as one currently released. It's just not possible. While out of the box, a game has gone through its development phase, a game such as Everquest has had both a development phase, and have had a live team adding content for years and years. So, while perhaps a new MMO can catch up to an older one, it would take years and years. UO for example, has outdated graphics and its mechanics are sluggish since its conversion to a 3D form, but there is a HUGE amount of monsters/items/quests that a game like WoW couldn't possibly compete with just out of development. Expect a great game with awsome mechanics, but expect it to have less content than MMOs which have been out in the market for a while.

Then you get into a debate over release. You hit a quality versus patience issue. The more content that is put in the MMO early, the more requested, the longer a development phase there is. The longer the development phase, the longer til the game is launched. So, as a fan, you have to balance your own wants. You need to balance your wants content wise, with your wants for an early release. You can debate either way on the morality of immediate gratification, but sometimes it's best to wait for good, solid content.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions








 	
	
Thor's Theory- PvP
Posted on 01/20/03 by Roin Ironfist


Hello comrades! My name is Thor Stormfist. You may know my cousin Brann, the Dwarven explorer, who wrote "The Journey of Brann". Well, I write diaries.
I am hear to tell you about my view on the game "The World of Warcraft" I will inform you of my theories, my observations, and my personal thoughts. I will be covering everything from the basics of the game, to the most highly defined small details, that even Brann wouldn't notice.

Please, if you would like me to cover a topic on almost anything that has to do with WoW, please submit it to roin@wowtavern.com and I will review your submission, and then reply to you if i will be writing a diary on it.


Now, on to the diary.
__________________________________________

Player vs. Player

Hello comrades! Today i will be informing you on my view of how player vs. player (*PvP) combat will work in *WoW. I think that there will be a specific server for PvP WoW or there will be special times when you can use it. Such as tournaments.

When you join with your character in WoW, you start at your last bind point. (*Bind point) Once you are in an open area, such as a field, you can immerse in combat with other players. Ok, now onto a demonstration on my point of view.

Lets say you are a human warrior and are doing PvP in another server.:

When you enter an open field, you can walk up to the opponent you would like to challenge, and click the "ask player to duel" button on your interface. The player that was asked the question gets a pop-up box that reads:

"Click yes to engage in a duel with _____"

"Click no to to engage in a duel with _____"



If the player refuses, then you just carry on with your questing, or you can ask that player again in 5 minutes.



If the player accepts, red swords will be placed above both of your heads to show that your are dueling, and cannot be injured by anything but each other.



Once you are in *combat mode with your enemy, you will fight to the death. Any spells can be used, and there are only two rules..



-If you run a certain amount of distance away from your opponent, the duel will be disbanded.

-No potions can be used when you are in duel mode.



If you eliminate your opponent, you get a pop-up box with another two option. They read:



"Take 100 gold from _____ as a reward"

"Let ____ go for free"



Most players will take option 1. Option 2 is only used if the player you show mercy, and are already rich. To end of this diary entry, I would like to point out that anytime during your duel, you can beg for mercy, and if the other player accepts, you just go on questing.








		
	
1.07-Renovating the Genre
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


Renovating the Genre

Woah, what a title! Today class, we'll be talking about some solutions to some problems caused by Blizzard seeking solutions to problems in the MMO genre. Along with that, we'll be exploring Blizzard's solutions to the problems of the MMO genre themselves. Also, on top of that, we'll be exploring vicarious solutions to prolems caused by Blizzard seeking problems in the MMO industry caused by early MMO developers creating solutions for their games through solutions to problems in older MUD games. Ok, scratch the last one.

Ok, now that I have you're head spinning, just read below and you should easily catch up.

Be a Hero! Along with Hundred of Thousands of Others...

One of the constant themes of WoW expressed by Mr. Bill Roper is the idea of heroism. The factoid that when you're done at your boring 9-5 job, or get out of school, you can play as much or as little as you want and still come off being the hero. Regardless of who you are in real life, regardless of your woes and tribulations, the decorative gewgaw (trinket) that is WoW will always be their to comfort you in its electronic bosom. Utter nonsense.

Let us digress a moment to speak of a comonplace, real life profession, that of a magician. Now let's say that said magician was able to take off his tophat and pull a bunny out of it. Great, it really is facinating the first time you see it. Now let's say you were to see this same trick again, everyday, for a week. After a while, it looses its appeal. The "magic" is lost in the repeatition.

You are a hero the first time you take down a wolf, first time you kill a troll, first dragon that you slay. This becomes commonplace, the constant hack-n-slash. The hundreth wolf you kill will not be interesting, it will be boring. Infact, that's how MMOs work. You kill one of any specific thing or two within a zone you are comfortable with until you level up and do the same thing for the next level of monsters. You never return to the younger monster unless you need a particular "drop" from it, or training a newbie. This process is repeated until, generally, you reach a point where you can no longer "solo" and simply go onto group-monsters, stuff you can only slay with 3-8 people. Great, wonderful, boring.

Blizzard's solution? A damn good questing system. You know, that is the right approach, as long as the quests are solveable beyond the chance of a particlar "drop" and there are enough of them to last even the hardcorest of gamer many months. But that's remarkably hard to do, having so many quests is hard to make, harder even to space them out, harder still to balance.

The only true solution to making the magic continue to happen instead of the same damn bunny, is to put in more content. More content means more stuff for players to find, explore, and achieve. But there still lurks a problem. Unless questing with friends, players tend to extend only from their confort zone. The common problem with MMO terrain is that sometimes there is too much, the fear of getting lost and loosing achievement time in trying to re-find the place that has the item they need to heal or are looking for. So, naturally, a player will not stray far from their starting land. So the solution to added content, which is the solution to repeatition, is to create ease of travel. With ease and comfort of travel, players can explore new lands in slight reprieve, seeing new lower-level monsters that they would eventually just skip over when their levels would be to high. The first few levels should be near starting areas, but there is a time fore a developing baby to leave the womb, just as there is a time for the developing MMO'er to leave the village from which he started. Content and travel are must-haves if Blizzard truly wants player to feel like heroes.

Way in which Blizzard is attempting to make you feel like a hero is through character image. WoW characters look mighty attractive and powerful. This is flawed twofold however, rampantly flawed.

    The first problem is that though you are indeed powerful looking, and it does give temporary confidence, such a thing falls from you like a dark cloak soon after you enter the MMO world. You are not the only good-looking, powerful hero, you are not the most powerful SOB in the land, you are mediocrity, and no one on the earth wants to be mediocre. It's quite superficial actually, a one-day "high" and then the realization that you are just joe-normal in a world full of heroes.

    The second problem is also due to the imaging of the character-creation process. How can any of us who sit here and play these MMO things truly relate to the very powerful characters. Video games are an escape from reality, that's the whole idea of most things non-work related. You do "hobbies" (or addictions) like gaming to escape from your world, meaning you do not feel like the hero in your reality. Upon first glance, it's pretty good, big strong, powerful looking guy, right out of the box. Yeah, immediate gratification, keen, neato, doesn't work in the long-run. What happens when you try to relate to your character? You can't he or she is just an empty husk, uninfused with a personality or a soul. People like Superheroes like Spiderman, Batman, Spawn, or Neo from the Matrix because they are relatable, they are human beings who face human problems on one level, but also save the day on another. Also quite superficial.

Wizard be Warrior, Warrior be Wizard

Wizards in WoW are not wizards, warriors in WoW are not Warriors. Why you ask? wizards can "solo" (fight alone) even though wizards are traditionally weak in hand-to-hand combat, and warriors have "shiny graphical effects" like wizards. Isn't hand-to-hand survival why people play Warriors? Isn't shiny effects why people play wizards?

It all depends on your personal train of thought. Giving the shiny effects to warriors dimishes the reasons to be wizards. Giving the ability to "solo" in an MMO can be a bad thing because it subtracts from the true essence of the class, there is another side however. Giving wizards the ability to play "solo" (alone) levels the playing field, it lessens the everyday frustrations of finding people you don't know, and it makes more people willing to play the class. Giving warriors the shiny effects boosts the confidence of those who play warriors, thus making it more popular as well. There is a sort of equilibrium going on, the goods balance eachother and the bads balance out with the goods. The leftover is the confidence given to both classes. Let's face it confidence, however fleeting, is good for players and makes them want to play more. Which is, for Blizzard and your confidence, quite good.

Destruction of Frustration

The crusade of Blizzard with WoW seems to be to destroy all the frustrating experiences of the typical MMORPG. The clunky interfaces, the ability for classes to "solo", the entire death system, and the mount system. It all leans towards scouring the seven seas of the MMO world, and extracting all the elements which makes you waste time. It's face-paced, in your face, immediate gratification, just what every human being on this planet looks for.

Let's look at the death system as a prime example. In a game like Everquest, when you died, you would respawn at a bind point, but your body would be somewhere near where you lost it. Often, in places like woodland areas, the body would get lost, unable to find it, countless hours of questing or trading would be for waste. Yes, you could give someone permission to carry your corpse, but that's not very feasable, what if you don't know the person? How then can you trust them to return your body and not steal your stuff. It's frustrating. On top of that, you would need to relearn all your old spells from your spellbook, what a frustration!

With WoW, when you die, you are returned to your spawning point, but unlike other MMOs, you return with all your stuff. So that when you "respawn" (come back to life), you can just walk back to the location you were questing or playing in with much less frustration in the need to find your lost stuff. In this way, Blizzard is reducing the frustration for you (and the frustration of corpse-programming for the) to play the game without the urge to toss your computer out the window.

Renovation and Innovation

Renovation

    To impart new vigor to; revive.

Innovation

    The act of introducing something new.

It deserves to be said that the afformentioned things are renovations, rather than innovations. Nothing Blizzard has announced has never been done before, while a few of the smaller ideas may not be in the MMO genre, they certainly have been boggled through the mind of every developer as he has crafted the traditional RPG. Though Blizzard is renovating, enlivening through untried ideas FOR THE GENRE, the ideas are far from unique or innovative. It's a good thing that Blizzard is renovating, every game needs its own niche, but what they are introducing is neither new, nor amazing. What Blizzard is doing is attempting to find a new way to hook gamers, and to perhaps brag about before launch and in marketing.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions











		
	
1.08-Beta Testing
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


Beta Testing

What Beta Testing Is

If you're new to the whole online gaming scene (or not into the whole "community" thing), you probably have absolutely no idea what a beta test is. A beta test is an early, (often) unstable, unbalanced, product which has never been tried on a wide scale. The company (Blizzard in this instance) sends you the CD-ROM file containing the current version of the game. You then install, login, patch, and play.

Why you want to be a beta tester

You get to play the game early! To brag to your friends how cool it is to be a beta tester, to be better than the "newbies" who get the game retail. Not to say you won't have to buy the game, you will. The beta CD is not the full version. Being a beta tester is often a thankless job, in most games, your character will be "wiped" from the server, you'll most likely need to create a new one for retail.

Why a company needs beta testers

A beta testing program is to test bugs on a wide-scale. A Q/A (testing) department cannot catch all the bugs and balance issues within a game. It cannot anticipate the wide-scale player relationships and economies of an MMO, so multiple testers are needed in order to fix problems which wouldn't be detected on a smaller scale. Also, it is a way to get the publics opinion on certain features which are controversial or unique, or how an old idea fits into the game.

Traditional MMO Testing

ALL MMORPGs have had beta tests, each and every one of them. These tests often take place in phases. The first phase is often hardware, so that the game works on a variety of system specifications. The second phase is often one of balance. In this phase, testers are often asked to test balances in the games' systems, including items, monsters, weapons, and ability selections. Sometimes a company will increase the experience rate so that heroes can level faster, to balance the higher-level skills. Finally is often a "public" or "open" phase (also known as a stress test) where a great number of players come in to test how much bandwidth a server can take before it begins runnings slowly (lag) or explode. Sometimes a company will charge shipping and handling to send out the cds to the players, it depends on the company. Most MMOs have a "closing" event, where the MMO world will be overrun by monsters, or everyone is given an insane amount of levels and money to splurge on cool items and run around and have fun for a day or two. Maybe something cool will start plot-wise the alludes to something in the plot at the begining of retail.

Blizzard Game Testing

Blizzard Games tend to take place in two phases, the main, and the stress. During the main phase, a few thousand people are selected and play the game. During the stress test, Blizzard either splits the cdkeys so that a pre-defined number of people can play off a single key, or they select new testers (carrying over the old ones as well) numbering in the thousands as well. While the main test is usually mailed to you, the stress test phase is usually download-only. In Blizzard tests, nothing carries over from beta to retail.

Getting In

So, assuming you're interested, you probably want to optimize your chances of getting into the beta. Well, how does one go about this? Well, there are two things a company looks for, location and your system specifications. They want primarily west-coasters, but some scattered around. They look for diversity, Blizzard likes to know that their games will work on a variety of machines. The more machines, the more people will be able to play, the more people playing, the more people paying.

Testing, not Playing

The one thing that most testers forget is that they are TESTING. Testing is quite different from playing, but this often gets lost in the sloth. People forget that they are a beta TESTER and instead just PLAY the game. There are four types of testers in this writer's opinion.

The Tester

The Tester actually tests out the games. He tries a variety of skills on a variety of monsters, he will look at factors which unbalance aspects of the game, watch the economy, look at the effect of items on their characters, watch the balance rates between heroes, and most importantly ACTUALLY REPORT ERRORS. The tester will not only report bugs, but errors in graphics or the game "Freezing".

The Gamer

The Gamer will feel satisfied reporting one or two bugs (often which are obvious and commonly reported) and feel justified. Be they balance or technical, the typical gamer will only report one or two bugs.

The Sloth

The Sloth is pathetic and reports nothing. He just wants the beta so he can play the beta. Great, eh?

The Websiter

Most companies will give the beta to webmasters of fansites. This way, the non-testers still get good information as the beta is taking place. Also, it helps with the hype of the game, appealing to gamers who do not have the beta. While, at the same time, helping to balance the game.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions
	
		






1.09-Addiction
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


Addiction and Gaming

Recently this great article has been circulating around the Warcraft community from a number of fansites and the local Wowgaming community. In it, the author deals with the addiction of MMORPGs within her life, particularly, her social relationships. Today I'm going to share some forum stories and ideology of addiction in conjunction with their lives. On top of that, I'd like to mention some points on something the article only touches on lightly.

Jaskalas, a Warcraft 3 AOE modmaker, had this to say on the article:

    These are the same dopes that would give up their life to a drinking or drug problem. They were born too weak to face up to life, the question is do you want them drinking and doing drugs to relax and get away from the world, or do you want them playing games? Heaven forbid there is a safer method of escaping a cruel world.

Stevefett, the creator of the popular Warcraft 3 site, the Tauren Totem, shared this:

    Gaming addiction, or even computer addiction in general, is only an issue for those that already lack the balance that creates a "normal" behavioral pattern. By balance I mean mental, physical, social, or emotioinal stability. We actually have specimens of each imbalance within the Tauren Totem community. I fill in the "emotional instability" part pretty well with what jask calls my "fetting," we had a socially unstable person in Funsocks, and the physically instable MeowMeow (and myself, actually.) These people need a release from these imbalances, and computer games fill the gap.

    You know why? Its not only escapism, but its "remote socializing." We play multiplayer games most, and thats why MMORPGs tend to cause the most extreme cases. For those of us that either fear social situations, think lowly of ourselves, have chronic emotional diseases like bipolar or clinical depression, or even lack the physical capability to endure other people, multiplayer games shrink the real world into an easily-digestible virtual "reality." We can enjoy the presence of others as we proceed on our tasks in the gaming universe.

    It isnt so much a pure addiction as it is a medicine that can become an addiction if doses are not monitored. It is a theraputic measure, one that helps as much, if not far more, than it hurts. The problem occurs when these people get completely sucked into the environment to the point where it degrades their own true reality. If their gaming world gets shut off, or they cant fund it anymore, they have nothing to turn to.

    Then, you've got the Koreans, who lack anything else to do PERIOD that hey, firing up some MMORPG action is just about the only thing to do. Koreans will be sort of the "test subjects" of the effects of long term complete assimilation of online gaming into a social environment, and as we can tell by all of these deaths and beatings that are game related, it looks bleak.

    Gaming addiction isnt a problem until leveling your Half-Orc Barbarian becomes more of a priority than breathing, eating, and making money to pay the rent.

The author of this article (Jim) comes from a family where addiction played a huge role. My father's addiction to alchohol ruined my early childhood, so I have first-hand experience of the effects and downsides of addictions.

Game addiction stems from the human need of escape. As mentioned before, every game is geared toward achievement. We toil day in and day out in a harsh reality. In a world of child-molesting priests and sexual advertisements pervading our psyches shaping us to believers that perfection must be obtained to be love or attractive to the opposite sex, we are tired and scared and unsure. To leave the bleak life society hands us for just a few hours a day or week, we are attempting to leave our reality for one filled with dashing heroism and social acceptance. As I've mentioned in the past, every game is created to make you feel special, make you the hero (or the villian), crafted to make your common everyday life fade away for fifteen dollars a month and fifty up front.

Gaming is an addiction, even this, a game fansite can admit to that. As the article mentions, "Gaming" has serveral levels of addiction, this is much like drinking alchohol. A person can consume a beer now and then and not become addicted, that person is a "casual drinker". The same is true for gamers, a person can play games for one or two hours a day, but not become addicted. These "casual gamers" do not let games control their lives. Wheras with "hardcore gamers" the game BECOMES their lives in most cases, they come home from whatever calling they have, and they sit at their computers til bed-time only to repeat the process again the next day.

Is this a bad thing? When it hinders the important things in life such as marital relations, job, school, or survival, you're damn right. Everything else is up to opinion, to some online socialization can be a substitute for "real life" socialization. It all depends on your belief on the subject which can be, naturally, influenced by society. Inevitably, the decision is yours, the balance between real life and gaming can be a blur, it is an addiction, but it consumes only time and electricity while not influencing the person's attitude in a drastic way, which makes it better than drugs, it cannot impair judgement. So it's up to you how much time you invest, but remember, addiction is a messy thing.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions






 	
	
1.10-Repetitiveness
Posted on 12/28/02 by JimB


Repetitive Reshmeditive

There is a looming problem create by most, if not all MMORPGs on the current market. It is the bane of the oldbie, that which drives players to quit MMORPGs as soon as the revelation hits. What is the MMO experience? It is achievement, it is self-gratification, it is boring. While true, the leveling and item-capturing treadmill can satisfy the soul for a day, a week, a month, hell a year. That which detaches all gamers from the MMO they have invested their time and money in is a simple bane, but one nearly impossible to eliminate, repetitiveness.

In a typical MMORPG, it is all about obtaining items/spells/stuff for your "avatar", the neophysical aspect of you projected upon the online world. You work to improve, you work to achieve, the problem is woven into the achievement itself, but twofold side effects, the means of that achievement, and the result of that achievement. These two factors can crush a game into useless soupy drek, these two factor have caused you to quit every game you have ever played.

The French philosophy E.M. Cioran once wrote in his book, The Trouble with Being Born,

    A zoologist who observed gorillas in their native habitat was amazed by the uniformity of their life and their vast idleness. Hours and hours without doing anything. Was boredom unknown to them? This is indeed a question raised by a human, a busy ape. Far from fleeing monotony, animals crave it, and what they most dread is to see it end. For it ends, only to be replaced by fear, the cause of all activity. Inaction is divine; yet it is against inaction that man has rebelled. Man alone, in nature, is incapable of enduring monotony, man alone wants something to happen at all costs-something, anything.... Thereby he shows himself unworthy of his ancestor: the need for novelty is the characteristic of an alienated gorilla.

It is the human condition and motivational imperatives that cause us to strive for activity. Truly to be human is to search for meaning in one's life, to attempt a personal epiphany or metamorphosis in our daily, repetitive, over-industrialize lives. The quickest way, according to the human psyche is not through personal reflection, but through immediate gratification through experience. When such a need is not being filled, we refer to it as boredom, as "wasted time", as a crime against the fabric of what society has made us to be, creatures with no boredom, with no time to be wasted, every moment counts for our lives are to short to be wasted on childish and fool-hearty endeavors. There is truly no such thing as wasted time, for each moment of our lives effects our very growth and development as a human being, each moment of boredom is not a waste, but a stacked event adding on to our mental synapses.

The first factor which contributes to the degeneration of a game in a person's life is the means of achievement, "how something is obtained". The obtaining of an item in a game is possible through many ventures, a pre-defined quest, a journey, a social event, a puzzle, a certain skill used, or a hundred different variations of each. The key for a developer is to create a system that will not be repetitive, that will not be done a hundred times over, or similarly done in many settings. Look up how to obtain something on a fansite, hack, slash, repeat, repeat repeat, "Oh boy I got that, now there is this!" Look it up, hack, slash repeat. It is the means of the achievement that drives you. When the means of achievement is too easy, to hard, or done too many times, it turns the gamer off to the game. It can't be hard, it can't be easy, it is the job of the developer to make it an experience and non-repetitive while keeping it all balanced in difficulty and in statistical balance with the rest of the game.

The other turn off is the result of the achievement. When the reward for such a thing is not worth it, it becomes repetitive and unnecessary. If the reward for doing a quest, for consuming your time, is not good enough, then it creates a tedium within the minds of gamers, in the conscious thoughts of the wise, and in the unconscious thoughts of the naïve, either way, it plants a seed of distaste for the game which must be balanced. The result of the achievement, "what you obtain" must be worth it. To play for four hours simply to get a potion is pathetic and not worth it.

Yet the repetitive nature of MMOs goes beyond quests, it is the simple action of "hack-and-slash" which can act to the detriment of the game itself. Hack-slash-level-bigger monster-repeat gets old as well. The problem most "oldbie" MMO players is their ability to see the repetitive nature of such games, they do not eat the pretty cake spoonfed to them by the industry, they seek more, more in their gaming experience, and more in their lives. Sometimes being within a high echelon (group) of "wise old gamers" can prove to be more harmful than helpful, it is a shedding of innocence to see beyond the barriers of achievement set up in games, one I pray none of you experience. Be you hero or tavern runner, king or peon, knight or grunt, be aware of the pretty icing on the cake, that lotus vale of which you eat, but also enjoy, for that is the core of why you play, to escape and enjoy.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions





1.11-The Perfect MMO
Posted on 02/09/03 by JimB


Why hello there again, nice to see you. The subject of today's discussion is the crafting of the most wonderful, popular, ginormous, super-fantastic, Massively Multiplayer Online Roleplaying Game. Of course, the term "perfect game" is an oxymoron, no game can ever be perfect, everyone's definition of perfection is different. Each person has a different mental and emotional state, has absorbed new ideas and beliefs, perfection is a myth, something conjured up to encourage the betterment of humanity. No work of art is perfect, no cell, no molecule, perfection is a falsity. Perhaps instead we should talk of how to make the best MMO that can be made. So, to explain how to make the best game we can make, we have to get down to the roots of what are the driving motives behind our gaming needs. Luckily I've already done this, so if you haven't read them, it might be a good idea to go read about achievement, addiction, and repetitiveness.

The most popular MMORPG is called Everquest. With over 500 thousand active subscribers, Everquest consumes the lives of those who play it through an addictive process, hooking in players, then making all the invested time a bane, a reason not to quit the game, you are a slave to the game. Everquest is a soulless MMORPG, while addictive, that really is all it is, an addiction. The game's repetitiveness and the threat of post-achievement loss is enough to drive anyone to keep their account active, praying for new content so they can blaze through it in a few hours. It's ridiculous.

Dark Age of Camelot is another game like Everquest, the differences are that there is less content, life/health regenerates faster, and it seems to take 3 times as long to level your character. This being a popular ploy, make it harder to level so players spend more time trying to achieve, quite a cheap alternative. The sad part is that the content DOES end, and all that is left is realm versus realm combat. This may change with the new expansion pack, but god knows how long that will last. Dark Age of Camelot, boasting a clunky interface, seems to addict people only for a short time until they are stuck with realm versus realm combat.

Ultima Online seems like the only MMO with a soul. It contains elements of achievement, but it is more the adventure than the achievement. It contains the elements of explorations and achievement, but also has socialization and crafting as well, elements that make the adventure more than just the slaying of the monster and the getting of the item, but also the making of something, then getting money for it or using it. On top of that, the skill system allows the player to develop naturally, that is the more they use a skill, the better they get at it. There are no levels, and there is nothing restricting you from being what you want to be, granted you cannot be the best at EVERYTHING, you can switch if there is something you don't enjoy. Ultima Online's largest fault is its own age, even with the 3-D upgrade, UO is outdated and slowly fading to dust, nothing lasts forever.

What makes the "perfect" MMO? It would have to be both addictive and filled with adventure. It would need to be so brimming with quests and craft-able items that there would always be new and enjoyable things to do. The addictive aspect would need to be present as well. You would need something so pure that you would be the hero, the great wonderful quester, ALWAYS something to achieve, rarely a dull moment. But, at the same time, a game with some down-time, the ability to relax with some friends. The key to the perfect MMO is content. Quite too bad this is not a reality, making content just out of the box is nearly impossible to do financially. Anarchy Online attempted to remedy this with a random quest generator, but all the quests ended up cookie-cutter copies, repair this radar, kill this person, it was all the same, nothing really heroic. Quests need to be individually tailored and originally made, that takes time, and time is indeed money. Quests involve creating areas, monsters, doodads, and plots, which take an absurd amount of energy to produce, and then balance. Skill systems have to promote achievement, to keep players evolving and interesting, which takes time and balancing. The perfect MMO would be a game where everyone achieves, everyone is the hero, and it is NEVER boring. That is what the perfect MMO is, the ability to keep the players interested without forcing them to spend fifteen days to attain a single level. Without cookie cutter quests, with skills beyond the utility of "get the next item", the perfect MMO is one in which your reality has been melted away into a wonderful cocktail of achievement and socialization, it is the perfect experience.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions
	
		




1.12-Pay to Beta?
Posted on 02/09/03 by JimB


One recent (unconfirmed) rumor around the fansite mill is that Blizzard has been considering their beta to cost money. That is to say, to obtain the beta, you have to pay Blizzard. This is no new concept, in fact, it has been practiced by many an MMO developer, including the ever-popular MMORPG hopeful, Starwars: Galaxies.

    Today I'm going to talk a little about beta CDs. Again, this is a topic that may not be relevant to you now, but probably will someday.

    Today we do our first burn test. Today and tomorrow we are making fixes based on that test. Friday we hope to burn the real deal Beta 1 disks (there will be two disks for beta 1). If that happens, we'll start duplicating them over the weekend and then send them to our warehouse so they are ready for the testers to order.

    There will be a cost for the beta disks ($5.95 plus shipping). This cost is only to cover the creation, duplication, shipping and handling of the disk itself. We believe that for Beta we are responsible for the cost of product development, beta bandwidth, promotions, etc. We feel that it is acceptable to charge the tester for the cost of the disk itself. This will also allow us beta test our billing systems.

Other MMOs have had some…"interesting" requirements. At one point, there was an MMO company which would send you the beta if you sent them any old MMO CD. To say the least, THAT was one creative idea. The idea of paying for a beta is not new, and I think many Blizzard fans have been spoiled by the idea that Blizzard sends out free betas. Betas have printing, shipping, and bandwidth costs, it is not outrageous to think that a company requires a fee.

What is the benefit of the beta? Well, there are two really. The first is that the beta is made to improve and balance the game, making it a better experience when it comes to selling it retail. This benefits not only Blizzard, but you as well, because when you help make the game better, you are helping to make the game better for yourself and friends. The other benefit is the fact that you get to play it early. While true, it is not as good as the finished product, not as much content perhaps, but it is still bragging rights and early quelling of interest you gain. So, in effect, they balance out, Blizzard gets something, you get something.

Yet there is still one factor yet to be balanced, the fact that Blizzard is paying for OUR service of testing, which is something they really shouldn't need to do, which they have been for years. MMORPGs, suck up a large amount of bandwidth, and while CD printing is cheap, packaging and shipping is not. Is asking for fans to pay for the beta a concept which has no moral basis? No, not at all. There is absolutely no reason for Blizzard not to ask for us to pay for the beta, none at all. So, if perhaps this rumor comes to fruition, (and it indeed is but a rumor at this point), there is absolutely no reason to complain.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions






1.13-Ebay
Posted on 02/09/03 by JimB


One of the most controversial topics in the WoW community is, perhaps, the right to sell characters, items, and gold, on ebay, an electronic auctioning service. This argument seems to be the MMO equivalent of say abortion or gambling, there is no right answer, there are ups and downs to the right to sell electronic content for money. Infact, it all boils down to the fundamental services provided by the creators of the game.

There are three running legal theorems being tossed around the net. The ideas that when you pay monthly for an MMO, you are paying for services. Another, is that you are paying for goods. The third is that you are paying for both a goods and services. If you are paying for a service, the right to interact your software with their server, then the right to sell the character, or any items on it is illegal. The character itself belongs to the company, which is why Blizzard can rename or delete the character at will. This is the most common type of defense of MMO companies. The weakest argument is that when you pay monthly, you are paying for goods, electronic content filtered and loaded into your computers, and stored on theirs, the service of storage being free. In that instance, it would be illegal to destroy or alter your character by the MMO company, thus you could legally sell it. The third is the most popular among noble gamers, when you pay for an MMO monthly, you are paying for both the goods of electronically downloaded patches in the form of content and balances, but also the service of character storage and bandwidth. In this case, it is illegal to sell your characters or his goods because it is owned by the company. The only thing you have a legal good you have is the download.

In nearly all MMOs, it is illegal to sell your character or his goods. It is the property of the MMO company, not yours. If you don't like it, read the agreement before you sign up. But as I often ask you to do, look beyond legality, look at the morality of it. Is it moral to sell your character on ebay? Well, you are selling something that isn't yours, that is illegal, and thus immoral. On the other hand, we mask the fact that our characters are owned by Blizzard in the fact that they do not get deleted, renamed, or mutilated. But we all know beyond a doubt, at the heart, that the character belongs to the MMO company, because we follow the rules of the company in the fear that our character will thrive, that we can continue to achieve. We don't do idiot things, or name our character "FukmeePlnty", because we know that Blizzard could delete them. If truly they were ours, Blizzard would not have that right, but they do.

Let's eliminate the legality of it, pretend it does not exist, that you own the character, and look at the morality. Is it moral to sell your property to make money for yourself? In American consumerist society? Yep. In a Utopia? No. It is a selfish intent, as is American Consumerism (yes, I am American), so yeah, if you are in a consumerist world, it's fine. But moral, that is where the black and white line blurs to a fuzzy gray. In the end, it's not right to sell on ebay, but our on nescient sloth tells us it is. Good game morality, good game.

Brought to you by WoW Revolutions













