
CRAFTSTARS BETA JOURNAL

Chapter 1: The Beginning.

After years of waiting, I finally got to play World of Warcraft for the first time. I spent a little time messing with the character creation process, and experimented a little with my player (which I had decided was to be a Night Elf). My first character is a Night Elf Rogue named Entrax. Among the first things I saw was a Night Elf guy with an "!" mark above his head. The "!" mark is the marker which indicates a quest. Knowing this, I eagerly ran towards the fellow and recieved my first quest. Apparently the population of Young Nightsabres was rising a little to fast, and so I was given the task of "slowing" the population growth of the creatures. Not needing to be told twice, I went off and in under a minute after loading up the world, I was engaging my first monster. I had a good time doing newbie quests in Teldrassil, but it was time for me to move on to bigger and better things so I made the trip to Dolanaar.
By this time I was around level 3 and had purchased the stealth skill from the local Rogue trainer. Trainers are the guys (or gals) who teach players skills. Once you meet the minimum level requirement and have enough cash, you can learn the skill you want. In the lower levels, you earn money by doing quests and recieving it as a reward, or from looting monsters. Some monsters drop money, while others drop loot which you can sell to venders for cash. I got to Dolanaar and while I was there, I trained in my first tradeskill: herbalism. I've never been a fan of Tradeskills in MMORPGs; they just weren't for me. But in WoW, Blizzard has managed to integrate tradeskills into the game so that everyone will train in them, not just the usual minority who spends all their time crafting. I continued to progress through the levels, and it seemed like there was never a time where I didn't have a quest active. All the talk about quests being the fastest way to level your character is compeltely true. A quest usually involves going out and either killing a certain amount of monsters or returning a certain amount of items, although there are many other types of quests I haven't tried yet. After going out and completing the objectives, you return to the NPC with a "?" above his head and reap the rewards (usually a nice experience bonus, some money, and a choice of one of a few items). One quest that sticks out in my mind went like this: A shady Satyr hanging out on the fringes of Dolanaar offered me a reward for bringing in a few key items from the surrounding wildlife. I brought them in and went on my way. Later on, I found out from a Night Elf NPC that the Satyr I had helped was a bad guy, and in order to remain a friend of the people of Teldrassil, I would have to get back for helping the wicked guy. My mission was then to go out and collect Fel Cones, green glowing pinecones found at the base of trees. I gave them to the shifty Satyr who assumed I had brought him a tasty snack. Next thing I knew, he had eaten the cones and turned into a toad in front of my eyes! 	
I finally ventured to the huge Night Elf capital city of Darnassus. I had died on the way over after venturing into a cave of monsters who were not very happy to see me. When I released my spirit I returned in a ghostly form to the nearest bindpoint. I had a choice then: I could get the spirit healer to raise me right there for a moderate cost to my experience, or I could return as a ghost to my body to raise myself for no penalty. I chose to return as a ghost, which didn't take very time. One thing I've noticed is that there is usually a fair amount of corpses littering the ground. Sometimes places can look somewhat cluttered when the corpses start stacking up. After my ressurection, I entered the massive city of Darnassus. The city is loaded with venders, class and trade trainers, and some beautiful sights. By this time, it was night out. The day/night cycle runs on a controversial 24 hour cycle (which is fine, in my opinion). At night things don't get much darker than they are in day, and one is likely to not even notice the change (unless you glance toward the star-splattered sky). Unfortunatly weather effects have not been implemented yet, but I look forward to that update.
As a Rogue, combat is pretty fun. There are two main types of combat skills: the kind that build up combo points, and the kind that spend them. When you engage an opponent and use a combo skill, a circle will light up around the enemy's portrait along the top of the screen. Some skills fill up more circles than others, but as a newbie Rogue, all mine only filled up a single circle. You can fill up to 5 circles, and then you can unleash a finisher (though you only need one circle lit to perform one). The number of circles lit determines exactly how powerful your finisher is. It seems like a fairly basic combat system, but the possibility of different combos makes it full of depth, especially when you employ the useful Stealth ability. Some moves can only be used from in front, some only from behind, and each with different effects upon the enemy. Rogues have the class skill Dual Wield, which allows them to hold a weapon in the off hand. I haven't trained Dual Wield yet (it requires level 10, and as I write this I'm level 8), but I'm very excited about getting it. Some other useful Rogue abilities include Evasion, a skill which boosts your evade rate for a limited amount of time, and a move which allows you to increase your rate of movement speed. All-in-all the rogue is an entertaining class with deadly power. 	
The game itself looks wonderful. The graphics are absoloutly astounding--everything is vibrant and seems to be full of life. The atmosphere is wonderful, and the world is filled with birds, critters, and beautiful natural locations. A lot of the world interacts with each other as well. Along my travels I spied a Nightsabre stalk and then take down a frightened deer. To call the sound of the game wonderful would be a gross understatement. The music is virtually perfect (in the areas I experienced). The ambient noises add to the world too, though it can get mildly annoying to hear those crickets chirp on and on and on, you can turn off these sounds at the click of a button. Characters have voices, and you can hear your character tell you that he's just too far away from the enemy to throw a knife at it, or that you're too tired to execute any more commands (energy meter is low). The audio and visuals in this game are perhaps together among the most impressive I've seen.
So far, I've had a great time playing World of Warcraft. It's a fantastic MMORPG so far--I've had much more fun as a newbie than any other MMORPG I've played as a newbie. It's still too early to tell whether it will last--whether the game will continue to be fun as I advance through the levels; though I have a feeling it will. I see a lot of people out there say "I hate MMORPGs, but I can't wait for WoW because I think it'll be so good that everyone will love it!" This may be going to far. While the game is great (so far) to me, that's because I like MMORPGs and World of Warcraft is an MMORPG. People who hate MMORPGS will not stop hating them because of WoW. It's possible, but WoW IS an MMORPG and doesn't quite transcend to the genre to be the pinacle of perfection. That being said, the game is in early stages of beta, and it truly does feel just as finished as any retail MMORPG out there (though a few big parts of the game have yet to be implemented). World of Warcraft WILL attract new and old fans to the genre and I imagine the player base for the retail version of the game will be huge. My early impressions for WoW? Fantastic! 	
Stay tuned for Chapter 2 of my Beta Journal, where I'll discuss how things get once I've moved beyond being a "weak newb" and talk more about some of the finer gameplay details. Got any questions? E-mail me at craftstar@warcry.com or send a Private Message via these forums.


Chapter 2: Moving Beyond.

My first day in World of Warcraft was an exciting one, and by the end of it I was already getting a pretty good feel for the game. It wasn’t long before I reached level 11 and experience on Teldrassil was slowing down. Now I was hanging out in Darnassus, trying to sell some equipment I had come across in my travels. The current trade system is simple; there is a chat channel dedicated for trading items in your region. To enter a message into the trade channel, you open the text box and start of with a /2 (trade channel is channel 2, general chat is channel 1). Then, you have to state your interest: WTB (want to buy), WTS (want to sell), WTT (want to trade). Then, you “link” your item to the chat. Open your inventory and shift-click the item you’re interested in selling. The item’s name will appear automatically in brackets. If someone clicks on the name of an item that was been linked to the chat, they can view the item’s stats. So, for example (and as you may have seen in screenshots) an average message into the trade channel might be: [2. Trade Channel]: Someguy: WTS [Vegabond Leggings] min. 8s PST. This means that Someguy wants to sell Vegabond Leggins for a minimum bid of 8s, and that you should whisper him. Blizzard has said that they’re currently working on a better system for selling gear, and I must admit that I’ll be very happy if it’s anything like an auction house.

After I had made some money and done some training, I knew it was time for me to move on. So I found myself the Hippogryph master and chartered my first flight—a free trip to Darkshore (the trip is free because via Hippogryph is the only way to get off Teldrassil). After a very short flight over the veiled sea, I touched down in the coastal city of Auberdine in Darkshore. I had a message to deliver from the Arch Druid to an Ancient of Lore, so after quickly completing that mission I started picking up new quests from various NPCs in and around Auberdine. I quickly learned that Darkshore features some monsters much more difficult than those found in the relative gentle forests of Teldrassil. I learned more of the history of the Night Elves here, especially of the renegade highborne, and even encountered a few Naga, who made short work of me. On one of my travels I found a tower surrounded by lots of women. Unfortunately for me, they weren’t up for a quiet walk in the moonlight, and I fled from them into the tower. Inside I found even more of them along with several voidwalkers. All NPCs have levels listed in their portraits to help you judge how strong they are, and whether you can take them. The enemies inside I found had tiny skull pictures replacing the usual numbers. Seconds later I was back at the Auberdine bindstone.

It was later that I had my first real experience working in a party. I was slaying Grells and sprites for bracelets to complete a quest in Bashal’Aran, an ancient ruined city. After completing that part of the quest, I had to then hunt Satyrs for a moonstone seal. I was having a little difficulty at this point so I requested to join a party and it didn’t take long at all for a friendly group of players to pick me up. Our group was made up of mostly Rogues and Priests (two of the three Night Elf classes currently enabled, and we were all Night Elves). Priests provide excellent support with their shield spell, healing, and crowd control abilities. In a group of five we were all doing well, and we had looting set to round robin (the party takes turns looting). In Ameth’Aran (the twin city of Bashal’Aran, but with passive ghost enemies instead of aggressive demons) we came upon an elite monster. Elite monsters are tougher than their regular counterparts, and are signified by either having a + in their name, or by having an actual name. She was a ghost that we recognized was a part of a quest many of us had accepted. After we destroyed the ghost, I looted the corpse and picked up the quest item. When I picked it up, everyone in our party who was a part of that quest also received a copy of the item.

We were done the quests and decided to go our separate ways after that point. I went back to the quest NPCs to collect my rewards and experience, and gained another level. During my more recent exploits my use of the Rogue skills had improved. One of my more favorite techniques to use (if I fail to catch an enemy off guard) is to start off with gouge, which stuns the enemy. I then run behind the enemy while it’s stunned and perform backstab, followed by a sinister strike. At this point I have 3 combo points and I pull off eviscerate to do some big damage. After that I try and get a point or two to use Slice and Dice, which increases my attack speed. Combat in World of Warcraft is fun, because there are plenty of abilities to use, including stealth for Rogues, which adds an element of strategy. Besides class abilities, there are plenty of items to enhance your stats. Currently my player invested in herbalism and alchemy skills, but for future characters I think I’ll go for skinning and leathercrafting because of the advatages to being able to make my own equipment.

In World of Warcraft, there is a lot of training that goes into your character. Every time you level, you recieve bonus stat points, more HP, more Mana (if your class uses mana), a skill point, and some talent points. Talent points are used strictly for talents. The game features many, many talents, which range from resitances to holy magic to bonuses against the Undead to increases to strength; there are TONS of talents, and several levels of each talent. Every talent adds something passive to your character; you will never gain an active ability from a talent. However, talents are extremely useful and you'll want to make sure you pick wisely. There are also skill points, which can be used for many, many things, including (but not limited to) tradeskills. There are a few additional things here in there that use skill points, including skills from your class trainer. Most class skills are learned from trainers for a price of copper, silver, or gold--however, make sure to save your skill points, because there are some skills that require them. An example is poison, a Rogue class skill. There are different skill categories, and using a skill in its category increases the power in that entire category. For example, a Warlock uses Shadowbolt, and his skill in Shadow magic increases. He then attacks with a knife and his dagger skill increases. Every spell under the shadow magic category is not stronger, due to the increase in its level. All skills in the game gain power through using them. There are many categories of skills, and sometimes players may want to hang back in places with slightly easier monsters to train in new categories.

Stay tuned for Chapter 3 of my Beta Journal, where I’ll move on to discuss my experiences as a Gnome Warlock and the further adventures of my Rogue. Also, I plan to tell more of tradeskills and about the world itself.




LOREN'S BETA


Log1: "Voyage Through The Horde".

	Welcome and thanks for reading. Let's get right into it, shall we? The image to the left is from deep within the Undead capitol, where my character Naggroth often went to buy engineering supplies. The large bag you see in this screenshot pulsates, dipping its blades into the green snot river for some diablolical purpose. The warrior has several extremely cool abilities, including charge! Charge will make your character zip towards an enemy as long as you aren't too close or far away. At lower levels charge will build rage and at higher levels it will do that *and* stun your target, making it a warrior's ideal first move in combat. My other Undead characters were a Warlock and a Mage. The Warlock was especially challenging to play because you had to collect soul shards to be able to summon things, but once I got the hang of it, it was awesome! The Undead lands are especially dark and dreary. The cities are a little bit difficult to navigate, and each one is different. If you are new to the city Blizzard is implementing new city maps, and signposts to help you find your way around.
Crafting in the World of Warcraft is magnificent. It is often just as entertaining to be an enrepeneur and make a bit of coin for a few hours as it is to stomp some creeps. Not that stomping creeps isn't interesting, on the contrary! Creeps are quite challenging: they'll run and regroup, call for help, even adapt to the spells or skills you are using. One example is quite blatant: an ooze that has the ability to change colours. If it becomes red, you know it is immune to fire, etc. The picture to the left is from the newbie Forsaken area. While in the alpha, there were impressive introductory live cutscenes with voiceovers, no such luxury is in the beta. One of the most fun first quests you go on is to raid the human farmlands for spare pumpkins. Then later you bring these pumpkins to an Undead alchemist who laces them with a toxin. You then have to bring the laced pumpkin to a Dwarf you are holding captive. When he eats it, he begins to feel strange, and turns into an undead ghoul, then dies horribly in a mess on the floor... this is a sinister example of the type of plague the Undead are trying to cook up. Speaking of cooking things up, if you are a cook in the World of Warcraft you can create gourmet delicacies. There are hundreds of recipies to collect, although their effects are more or less three things. This is also being looked at luckily, we've seen some brewmaster NPC's and there has been lots of talk of implementing brewing into the cooking skill. 	
	Another word about the game: in the Undead capitol you will find unclothed humans being tested on... and high in Sun Rock Retreat a Troll Witch Doctor dances gleefully in front of a few Night Elf captives. If you collect ingredients for him, he will do a bit of voodoo on the Elves. About this time we see the Undead only push ending and the all horde push begin. I promptly create a Tauren Shaman and give both a new race and a new class a whirl. The Shaman is very awesome, you can heal, last in close combat, and throw down a variety of totems (wards) to help your party members. Some totems deal damage to the enemy, others increase the strength or defense of your party members. Still others will slow the movement of your enemy, restore mana to your party, or prevent your party members from becoming sleeped. The Tauren lands of Mulgore are being invaded by greedy goblins that will stop at any lengths to drive them from their homelands... including poisoning your water supply. They've also set up a large mine to the East. But the most impressive thing about Mulgore are the KODOS! Yes, KODOS! Large, stompy kodos that will make your screen shake with their powerful legs as they migrate around in herds!
The coolest area in the barrens, however, has to be Sen'Jin village. A number of smaller islands are off of the cost of Sen'Jin and you can explore them all, killing tropical beasts like tigers and makura. On one of the islands you will find a tribe of enemy Trolls, and their witch doctor will shrink you and curse you if you try to fight him. My Tauren became the size of an itty bitty Gnome! Another thing you have to know about WoW is that there are many creeps that wander around randomly. This bunch of gazelles crosses the road, and they are quite harmless, but there are many groups which are very powerful that also roam in this way. In the Thousand needles, a Kolkar hunter always roams with a group of three pack hounds. If you are alone you can run into this guy and he is quite lethal. Also around the gold road roams a group of four level 24+ alliance members (the + means they are "elite" and have 3x the hp of a normal creep of that type). Also, in the barrens you will see Lions and their pet cubs accompany each other. They even congregate and rest underneath trees! 	
	But the Barrens are FAR from barren, come to think of it. There are several oasis, and even a verdant cave filled with all sorts of tropical wildlife, that leads to the instanced area, the Wailing Caverns. Several quests involve you having to search the oasis for highly odd types of mushrooms, and geysers. Along the coast of the Barrens is the port town of Ratchet. Goblins will pay you if you collect things for their craziest ideas, as well as to defend the town from pirates along the coast. A word about special events: although we didn't get to test this, I hear Blizzard has a special event all coded where Ogrimmar, the Crossroads, and Sen'Jin all get attacked by three separate forces... there are several quests that all allude to this event in-game, including destroying the war plans of three groups of Kolkars to disrupt the incoming attack.
The Wailing Caverns in particular is extremely difficult, and this makes it really fun! Although all the bugs hadn't been ironed out, you had to go and kill four Night Elf druid lords within the chamber, as well as a huge ancient. If you suceeded all that, you could then proceed back to the entrance of the cavern and protect a Tauren hero as he walked to the sleepers area. Once there, you have to fight off wave after wave of enemies, followed by the sleeper himself! The ending to this quest needs more exp and loot but it was one of the hardest fought victories I have ever had in a game. Another cool instanced area is Shadowfang. As soon as you enter, the Worgens come for you. Huge, hulking wolfmen with elongated claws and jagged teeth. As you move deeper and deeper into their stronghold, you discover several different types of them and climbing the tower is the hardest part. 	
	And now, a word about polish. This game has it up the ying yang. Comparing the maps from Warcraft I to WoW, you can actually navigate using the Warcraft I map, not the WoW map. Also, voice emotes are TOP NOTCH. The Gnomes in particular sound perfect. Just because of their emotes alone I want to party with them 24/7. The Trolls also have absolutely awesome voices. Imagine the coolest warcraft III troll quote and then make it twice as funny, and that's WoW. When you explore an area, it instantly becomes apparent that you are exploring an area that was made by hand. If you look closely at the tables in taverns, you can even see scratches in the wood, including a heart with some initials inside it, and a game of tic-tac-toe! When you visit the Orc lands in particular you just break out and laugh when you see the practice dummies they made to look like humans. There is one quest where you have to go kill some rats to help an Orc make some stew. Yeah, that's a cool new way to incorporate killing rats into the game. But there is also a 1% chance or so that when you kill a rat during this quest you will instead get an item "dazed rat" with the description "This rat looks stunned, why don't you let it go?". This attention to detail is phenomenal, and they've definately suceeded in adding in that Warcraft humor! Alright, this concludes log 1. Stay tuned for Log 2: Voyage Through the Alliance!


Log2: "Voyage Through The Alliance".

Welcome to Log 2: "Voyage Through The Alliance". The first character I created was, since I had never tried them during the alpha, a priest! As I also wanted to explore a brand new landscape, I figured I would make her a human. My first lot of quests included killing wolves and kobolds, but pretty soon I was sent off to a new town, Goldshire, because they needed my help there more than here. Murlocs had invaded the coastline and one quest in particular you have to discover the fate of two guards. I love the spell "holy shield" that the priest has. It absorbs an amount of damage for up to 60 sec. I also tried out all the emotes for her... and boy was I suprised! The /cheer emote especially, she does a huge, giggly, girly jump into the air like a cheerleader! It wasn't long, however, until I got to the second part of the quest and came upon an entire murloc village. There were lots of murlocs but I figured I could take em one by one. Boy was I wrong: the murloc I was fighting decided he had had enough and ran to get at least four more of his friendds. I ran, using my holy shield to buy me some extra time, but it was to no avail and I fell. 	
	"Oh, right!" I said to myself, as I saw that I had become a ghost. I could mouse over a negative buff "ghost" in the top righthand corner of my screen. Not only was I invisible, but I was twice as fast to boot! Within 2 minutes I was back at my corpse. I carefully walked around it, selecting the best place to respawn at. I spotted another player so I chose to respawn near them. (I don't have to outrun the Murlocs, I just have to outrun YOU hehe). About then, however, I ran into a really nice player and we decided to group and do these quests together for mutual safety. We started with the murloc village. She was a rogue and could really dish out the damage, but together with my priest, we really worked well together! You see, a rogue is meant to deal damage but can't take it very well, but with my holy shield and healing spells available, she was unstoppable! We then moved on to another quest where we had to kill some larger wolves. Now, in the alpha, whenever you killed a beast you might get some leather, an excellent source of revenue. But after killing 10 wolves and getting nothing, I realized something new: you had to get skinning to be able to skin these guys! This is an awesome improvement as before people were selling leather by the hundreds, and now, the value of leather has risen substantially!
Next, we did a quest involving killing lots of gnolls, and their huge leader gnoll. After that, we decided to turn in our quests and go our separate ways. So I decided to go back and explore Stormwind. As a Priest, you train all your spells at the cathedral. I also went to the mage district and learned herbalism, alchemy, and tailoring. Along the way, I ran into several people from my guild, and added them all to my friends list. Khaz in particular offered me some 6 slot bags. Now, he was level 30... I knew most of what I had would not interest him, but I remembered one quest I did that gave me some oil of olaf, +20 defense for 30 minutes. Boy was he suprised! I was too, even by doing low low level quests, I had obtained an item that a high level character would be willing to trade for! Stormwind is a huge city separated into various districts. One area is the king's chamber... the king is very well protected and also, very young. In the city there is also areas you can pick up quests and even adventure. NPC's stand on boxes and shout "free beer at my pub!". NPC's also complain about their lives "Damned Orcs burned down my farm *sob* *sob*... as well as discuss rather interesting things. A group of mages were discussing how to reopen a portal, and gave clues that you would need over 20 casters to do so. 	
	A thick fog permeated the air around the Dwarven district of Stormwind. Those Dwarves were always busy smelting and crafting things. The finest pubs are also located in Dwarven lands. I played a short little gnome for a little while then, because I was eager to see some different landscapes and enemies. The Rogue I had picked was quite impressive, able to dish out damage even faster than the Assasin from Diablo 2. I faced a rogue with my priest in Elwynn, and it took me to 1/20 of my life in about 3 seconds. I didn't even realize my life was going down at first because the thief had backstabbed me. Definately looks like a fun class to play as! Then there is a region of Stormwind called "the park". This is where the Night Elves reside. I found lots of Druid and Hunter trainers there, and I plan on playing a Night Elf as soon as they enable those classes. Also of interest within the city, is the trade district. Jumping into the trade channel revealed that people were auctioning off hundreds of items per hour. Though these channels are not the final form of the auctioning system, they did work OK and I was able to sell some leftover copper that the Kobolds had dropped back at the beginning of my adventure. "WoW!" I thought. Even these lumps of copper are in demand, and you find them off of level 1 enemies.
The area just beyond Elwynn forest is Westfall, a land of wheat and abandoned farmlands. And abandoned with good reason! Ruthless bandits patrol the area, and even worse, the farmlands are infested with huge harvest golems. Of course, I wasn't going to let this stop me. A caravan was just outside, broken down, two farmers offered quests related to how they were chased from their home. I had to find a pendant they left behind, gather some food for them, and some hay for their horse. The rewards looked nice so I went up and started to attack a golem. These guys are brutish. I took one down but the second one finished me off. I reappeared at a town I had never visited before in Westfall, and this time I decided to take the exp loss. It wasn't as big a loss as I thought, very reasonable. I quickly healed myself up and decided that I would be best if I stayed within Elwynn forest for a while longer, until I was a bit higher level. I travelled back to Stormwind and decided to have some fun by flying on the grypon ride. WoW, the ride was terrific, and it was obvious that the flight path was created to expose players to some of the good hunting grounds and major sites in Elwynn. We past by a dark, ominous land of smoke and fire, with some Orcish buildings, and arrived safely at Ironforge. 	
	The look of Ironforge is truly grand. You could hear, faintly, the sounds of battle in the distance, and occasionally, the sounding of a horn. Something was up. The walls were inscribed with gold Dwarven letterings. The ambient sounds in this game are over-the-top awesome. You can hear the rustle of chainmail as warriors walk by, and the sound of the sea if you are near the coast. The birds chirp merrily, and at night you can hear owls, frogs, crickets, coyotes, and other night creatures. Blizzard also seems to be fully supporting the online community. I found a fireworks shop in Stormwind where I could buy, well... firworks! These would actually launch into the air and explode for all players to see! I can just imagine the 4th of july in-game! Most interestingly, though, the world felt alive. During the alpha there weren't very many NPC's, but now they are everywhere. Kids chase each other through the streets, an Old lady walks slowly down the alley, a teacher walks her class around the city too. You an follow the teacher and learn all the different areas of Stormwind and its history. Speaking of history, it is dead on accurate. You will often see things in the game straight from the series. The Valley of Heroes, for example, has plaques you can read about the heroes that went in the first war to Draenor.
All this works together to create a deep atmostphere for the game. And while I'm on that subject, I'll talk a little about content. The world is overflowing with things to do -- you will never have an empty quest log. Even a small border town can keep you busy for days, if not months. It seemed like every time I logged on there were more quests available that weren't there before. But not just quests, the tradeskill system, the instanced dungeons, everything comes together to provide a gaming experience that is fun, and flexible to both casual and hardcore gamers. Whether I spend 30 minutes playing, or a full monthly gaming marathon, I know I won't be disappointed! Alrighty then, I think this concludes Log 2. Come back later for log 3, when I take a very close look at what the snowy lands of the Dwarves and Gnomes, and see what they are up to. 	
Log3: "A Dwarven Adventure".

	Satisfied with my journeys as a Priest, I decided to try one of the classes I had not been able to before: the Paladin. My Dwarven Paladin began her journey in a small outpost. My first set of quests involved thinning the population of wolves in the area, and delivering a report to another officer that was down the road. The skies are beautiful at night, and it is very visible even during that time in-game. As a Paladin, you start with the ability to open up some indiscriminate justice with your huge hammer. It was quick and easy to get into combat and your special ability deals lots of damage and makes your character do an awesome flying hammer smash. It was readily apparent that this snowy region had a character all its own -- the music, the sound of snow crunching under your feet, the puff of breath that came not only from your character, but enemies, and neutral critters as well. Although the roadways were very well patrolled, the forested areas were teeming with all sorts of baddies, wolves, bears, even Troggs. I quickly proceeded to massacre a good number of enemies and I leveled up twice. After seeing how much fun using a one handed hammer was, I decided to have twice as much fun with a two handed one, investing in Two-Handed Mace Mastery (Level 1) and buying myself a basic two handed mace so I could start raising my skill in two-handed maces.
It was easy to begin exploring, after my first two quests, I decided to deliver that message. Upon completion of the quest, the old Dwarf asked me to help defend the land and kill a few Frost Trolls. Not wanting to pass by a chance at some experience, I heartily agreed. When I was done, he then rewarded me, and followed up with yet another quest, to find his book from a unique troll within a cave. As I already knew where the cave was because of the last quest, I headed back there. I found two other players both at the entrance, and I asked them both what quests they were on. It turned out one of them was on the same one I was, so we grouped together. We will each recieve the reward for killing the unique troll so this saves us both time, and also, makes it safer for both of us if we stick together. After much scouting we found the little bugger deep in the cave, he was a Shaman and had a whole bag of tricks up his sleeve, but we managed to put him down without too much hasstle. 	
	After journeying a bit farther, I was directed to a steam tank workshop. Several Dwarf NPC's were arguing about which was more important in their rig, speed (less weight) or armor (more weight). But several of them also offered quests, the telltale large yellow exclamation marks just begging me to click the NPC's... but first, I couldn't get sidetracked, I had to deliver this letter. Lo and behold, it was a letter commending my previous efforts and offering me the opportunity to serve as a holy defender of Ironforge. Well that was all fine and dandy but I was rearing to go talk to those NPC's. One of them had his rig done already, but it wasn't "homey" enough for him, so he wanted me to collect 8 wendigo manes so he could furnish it inside -- truly a classic quest plot. About this time I figured it was time to upgrade my skills. If I was going to be killing Wendigos, I would need to be able to hold my own in combat better. The most interesting thing available were the Auras, and I spared no expense and invested in both defiance aura and a health regen (out of combat only) aura. The defiance aura in particular was very useful, it gave everyone nearby +50 to their armor. And it costs no mana to use the Auras I saw -- whohoo! I promptly got lost but checked my quest log to quickly find out which way I had to go. I entered the cave to find the corpses of Wendigos, and the sounds of battle. Though the Wendigos were, like me at this point, only level 9, there was a level 17 Priest doing the quest. Naturally, I indicated that I needed to kill Wendigos and we proceeded to lay waste to many a hairy beast.
The animation these Wendigos had was amazing. They swayed their arms as they walked. It was almost as if Blizzard had watched National Geographic videos of Gorillas for several hours as they animated to get it perfect. But why stop there -- Blizzard even added a humorous "ass scratch" that a Wendigo could do if not in combat. In fact, everything has these animations: bunny rabbits scratch behind their ear, deers bow their heads and eat some grass, younger NPC's bounce impatiently or outstretch their arms as they run to pretend they are flying in an airplane, and Squirrels groom themselves. But alas, I digress. The Wendigos were quite ferocious and I lost my way in the cavern. Two of the beasts entered combat with me, and with no backup nearby, I had to go all out to stay alive. I engaged the first one, concentrating on taking him out, using my damage skills, and my defiance aura to reduce damage. Then I got low on life when fighting the second one, so I cast Divine Favor and became immune to all damage (but unable to deal any myself) for 6 seconds -- just enough time to switch to my healing aura and gain +10 health, cast heal on myself, and switch back to defiance aura as the immunity wore off. Using the favor is also a great idea as an opener in combat, because many creeps like boars will try and do a special attack usually to knock you to the ground, but I like using it as a last-ditch-effort type of move. Unfortunately, even my skills were not enough to best the Wendigo, so I gleefully pulled out my secret weapon: a healing potion. By now, the Wendigo was dead and my friend the Priest had arrived to cast a Healing Over Time (HOT) spell on me. 	
	The Wendigos were quite ferocious and I lost my way in the cavern. Two of the beasts entered combat with me, and with no backup nearby, I had to go all out to stay alive. I engaged the first one, concentrating on taking him out, using my damage skills, and my defiance aura to reduce damage. Then I got low on life when fighting the second one, so I cast Divine Favor and became immune to all damage (but unable to deal any myself) for 6 seconds -- just enough time to switch to my healing aura and gain +10 health, cast heal on myself, and switch back to defiance aura as the immunity wore off. Using the favor is also a great idea as an opener in combat, because many creeps like boars will try and do a special attack usually to knock you to the ground, but I like using it as a last-ditch-effort type of move. Unfortunately, even my skills were not enough to best the Wendigo, so I gleefully pulled out my secret weapon: a healing potion. By now, the Wendigo was dead and my friend the Priest had arrived to cast a Healing Over Time (HOT) spell on me.
Our labors within the cave completed, we decided to go our separate ways, but not before I got this awesome screenshot. This player had invested in Survival and was able to weild a flaming torch in addition to his mace. The way torches look in-game will blow you away if you turn up all your graphical settings. Sparks come out and it gently moves according to the wind. But more than that, as you can see, the torch is its own light source and will cast a unique light upon my character here. Other items like handheld lanterns will also do the same thing. Survival also encompasses building little campfires using purchased wood. In Darnassus, there was a Gathering trainer, however, and I'm not sure what Blizzard is doing with this NPC, but it appears like she will train you further in Survival and give you the ability to find food, water, or maybe lumber in the wild too. I unpartied and headed back to the Sige engines to claim my reward - he offered me some rockets, a good amount of experience, and currency. Now, I was ready to make the trip to the Dwarven Capitol city of Ironforge. I was enjoying playing the Dwarf so much I decided I would stick with this character and not my Priest for a while longer. Ironforge was just a 5 minute walk from my current position, and with the graphical settings turned up all the way, you could see it on the horizon. 	
	I approached the base of this mountain city with little knowledge of the Dwarven lifestyle or cities. What I did know, is that the Dwarves had their armies somewhere else, and this was why they relied on rangers, and paid mercenaries like me to get smaller jobs done within our borders. Unfortunately, it seems as though these "smaller jobs" are quickly getting out of hand. The beasts of the area are starting to become overpopulated, and worse, the Troggs and Frostmane Trolls are taking the opportunity of not having the army around to try and reclaim this land for themselves. One mountain pass, for example, you have to go through in order to get from your starting city to the next one. But it is heavily infested with Troggs. Although there is a quest associated with them if you backtrack further, just going through the mine yeilds a good amount of experience your first time. At later levels, the Troggs got afraid of me and didn't waste my time -- they were no longer as agressive to me as they were when we were of equal level. It was amazing seeing players fly in and out of Ironforge on Gryphons. I had yet to ride a Gryphon and from the movies I had seen from Blizzard, I knew it would be awesome!
On the way to the summit, I passed a travellilng vendor. Some vendors do not stay in one place, but travel all around the land selling their wares. Even more interesting, this vendor sold an item which he had in limited quantities -- after I bought it, it disappeared from his inventory window entirely, to pop up several hours later for the next lucky individual. I bought some rather nice food and watched as two level 30 players began to duel each other. The duel took place atop the mountainside. In alpha, you could tell who was dueling because there was a big red crystal that hovered. But now, it was a fully fledged flag that was much more visible, and many players came to see this event. It was a Rogue versus a Priest. The both healed up 100% and bowed to each other. The Priest buffed himself up, but the Rogue's opening move was far cooler - he threw a little ball on the ground ninja style and in a puff of smoke, disappeared. The Tension that the Priest must be feeling to know your enemy, capable of great damage, lies anywhere... Of course, he popus out from behind the Priest, doing a backstab and unleashing a series of quick attacks. Just as the Priest was about to lose his shield from all that damage, he casts sleep on him! Of course, he has a chance to break from his sleep every second or so, and he can resist sleep, so this isn't a tactic the Priest will want to use a lot. Quite interesting though, the Priest took the time to drink something while waiting for his opponent to wake up. How cheezy! The Priest re-buffed and continued to use shadow magic spells to whittle away the life of the Rogue. This went on for about 5 minutes, and then the Rogue disappeared again (he went to hide behind a column and eat some food himself). I called it as it was "This gives new meaning to the phrase: food fight!". In the end, though, the Priest used sleep too much and it wore off twice in a row lasting only 1 second, allowing the Rogue to finish him. The duel flag disappeared in a sparkly explosion and the Priest, at 1 life, did the /grovel emote because he lost. Seeing how fun this was, I watched another duel go on, and then another one. But I figured if I was going to ever duel I would have to keep questing so I can at least use some of my higher level spells/skills. 	
	Within the city now, it became readily apparent that this place was in fact a huge forge. The city was heated by the smelted materials that flowed, in rivers, towards the great forge room. Around the city was a series of shops, and I decided to learn skinning and leatherworking so I could make myself some better armor and patch it up for extra defense, perfect for my high defense pally idea. I sat down in the map room and devised a plan for how I wanted to build this character and where I wanted to go to test the game next. After debating with myself for a few minutes it became clear: I wanted to explore areas I could not go to at my current level. So, I found an enemy, and died. As a ghost, I had free reign to go anywhere. During the alpha, there was a location called the Bulwark that was guarded by level infinite creeps. I was dying to get there, so I had to run north all the way to the lands of the Undead. You can see my travels, and some rather juicy screenshots, in our beta gallery now. Well, this concludes Log 3: A Dwarven Tale. My next log will be a bit different... I'm going to try and do one of those instanced areas, plus, an in-depth look at tradeskills and the economy.
You can view all these pictures (and more) in their full size in our beta gallery!
This page is written and presented by Loren.






The Essence of Beta


With the time nearing, and the clouds starting to part, most of us can finally see what a great game Blizzard is going to unveil to us. But before it hits the shelves and a massive crowd of angry peons hack and ravage their way into any game store to pick up his or her copy of World of Warcraft, Blizzard must put WoW through a high intensity test run, also known as the "Beta".

As we know Beta is a phase of game development that comes after the Alpha, where the Alpha was the first stages of the game, in which both the developers and the Friends and Family of Blizzard Entertainment got to partake in the initial testing of the game. This was a very preliminary time and stage, where aspects of the game were still being conceptualized and worked on. Soon though, Blizzard will be stepping forward to offer the job to you, the people, to test their game.

When they sift through the signups, they will most likely form a "range" of people that they want to be in their game. Why you may ask? Because they need to test every single hardware scenario, or every single type of computer that could run this game. Not only to overcome any hardware specific performance issues, but also, to be able to detect incompatibilities so that they will know what to print on the back of the game box.

If you are selected to partake in this wonderful thing, you will be sent an email of conformation and the Holy Grail: WoW itself. Incidentally, WoW will not require an NDA (Non Disclosure Agreement) and thus you will be encouraged to share your experiences while beta testing with others. Testers will be fully supported by Blizzard in their endeavors. Not only will there be a set of special forums for testers to provide feedback on, but those forums will be made viewable by the general public. In addition, while in game you can submit bugs by hitting the "report bug" icon, or send the developers your own suggestions that are not bug-related. If your copy of the game client crashes, unless your entire computer freezes, an automatic bug report form will probably also pop up, though I am sure there will also be an email address which you will be able to provide feedback to as well.

Next, you will be able to finally breathe out that stored up hope and worry from days past onto the screen, while you either watch the download bar slowly progress with each packet of glorious game to your hard drive. Or, you will be watching outside as the mailman drops the holy package into your mailbox. But either way, you will hopefully be able to test the game at some point in time. This is because the beta test itself will proceed in stages. If you don't get accepted right away for the initial testing, you still have a chance to be accepted later during the beta test.

During testing there are many things that might happen. There will probably be regular adjustments made to the game. Minor fixes to the servers will likely not require a download, but any balance changes, or art/music additions to the game will require a patch. The game itself requires approximately 3 gigs of free memory to run according to Blizzard.

As a tester, it will be your responsibility to find as many bugs as you can in the time allotted. There is incentive to provide excellent feedback and find bugs too, you could be added to Blizzard's friends list and that would mean that you would automatically be included in Blizzard's next beta test. So be sure to try everything and anything you can to produce bugs, and then report bugs and provide quality feedback often (Quality is often valued more than quantity).

Finally, after all of those many long nights of coffee drinking and cold sweating, your characters will vanish and you will be shooed off the servers to rejoin the pool of your fellow WoW fans, where you will wait just like everyone else for the release version of the game.

My best regards to everyone in the process of Beta, Michael (Mhr003)

So, be sure to notice the nav bar at the top of this section. That will get you through our site's Beta section. Enjoy! 



Section 1 : Signups

In any closed beta, the game has a signup period. In this case, you would have gone to Blizzard's Site and select the beta signup link. Selection is done entirely by random selection. Signups have already started and finished, so we apologize if you didn't get your application in, but don't worry. Fansites will have contests of their own and betas to give away!

Section 2 : The Wait

Blizzard has the signups, and they're randomly selecting testers for their phases now. The wait could be 3 weeks, or it could be months, they're finishing the final touches and getting ready for the beta to go live. Here are some tips that can help you be patient while you await quite possibly the greatest beta test of all time:

Play other games
Don't refresh the blizzard site or check your email every 5 minutes in vain, play other games for a while. If you haven't got any games, download a demo, there are tons of free demos available all over the web of interesting games, including MMORPGs.

Chat away on the forums
Need someone to talk to about the stress of wondering how long you'll need to wait? Chat it up on the Warcry Forums!

Focus on school or work
Try and improve in the important things in life until the beta starts.... Once the beta has commenced, you may feel tempted to drop out of school, quit your job, or do anything else that may give you more time to spend playing the beta. While the decision to do that is ultimately yours I must ask you to think to the future: a good education and a job are important things to have in life.

Section 3 Part A : Installation/Download

World of Warcraft will be available by mail or by download when the beta is released. You will require 3 or more gigabytes of free hard drive space to install WoW. You will be given a choice of whether you would like the CD(s) mailed to you, or whether you would like to download and install them. If you choose to download them, information will most likely be given to you on where to download the files in your beta acceptance confirmation email.

Installation

Like most games, insert the disc, and wait for the setup application to load. If this does not occur, check the drive and make sure the disc is not scratched or damaged, then reinsert the disc. If the problem continues, try manually exploring the CD(s) and running the setup application. Once the setup application has loaded, choose a directory you see fit to install the game. You will also be able to choose whether or not you would like start menu shortcuts and desktop icons. Alternatively, if you downloaded the game, first create a new folder in which to place the game files, then double click the installer program and browse to that folder to extract the setup files. Then run the setup files directly by double-clicking the setup icon.

If you are downloading, please note that what is actually happening is you are being sent files directly from Blizzards hosting servers. As such there will likely be thousands of other people attempting to do the same thing as you and the speed of your download may be slow, or the server may go down entirely. If you find that your computer is not able to download with much success right away, it may be a good idea to wait a few hours, or request a CD be sent to you.

Section 3 Part B : Settings

Once you've installed the game, configure settings according to how your system will run the game. Depending on your computer specifications, you may want the game to run at maximum performance, or maybe you'll want to adjust the sound options. If a setting affects the performance drastically (i.e. turning the resolution up makes the game run slow, choppy, unstable) then turn it down. During certain graphically intensive actions, like riding an air taxi, you may wish to turn down the clipping range.

Section 4 Part A : Playing the Game

After configuration, you are finally ready to play the game. Create or log on to your account, and create/select a character. If your new to the World of Warcraft interface, visit our Gameplay, Interface and Features sections.

Section 4 Part B : Taking Screenshots!

World of Warcraft will NOT have an NDA, so feel free to take all the screenshots you like! If you'd like to submit screenshots, you will be able to post them in our Beta Screenshots Gallery (providing Blizzard allows us to). We aim to be your #1 place to showcase beta screenshots.

To take a screenshot, simply press Print Screen (prt scr) on your keyboard. The screenshots will be placed in your game folder under a subfolder called screenshots, as previous Blizzard titles have. Also note you can reset the print screen function to any key(s) you like.

Section 4 Part C : Movies? Sound?

We are still not sure if you will be able to record or share movies or sound taken from the game. A great program to use to capture video of video games is FRAPS, or to a lesser extent Camtasia studio. If we are able to record movies you may see a cool gameplay video from WoW Warcry sometime during the beta. =)

Section 5 : Reporting Bugs

Found a bug? Write down a detailed description on where, how, and when you found it. Communicate clearly and using proper grammar. Information like your system specifications will be automatically collected and thus you don't need to provide that sort of information.

Here are two examples of how to report a bug.

First Example (Good)

1. I logged onto the server, and spawned in Stormwind where I had previously saved.
2. The in game time said 6pm
3. I walked over to the merchant named Lieutenant Brock and selected him. Brock is located in front of the barracks in the warrior district of Stormwind.
4. As soon as the shop window game up, the game crashed to desktop. I repeated the process 3 times to be sure.
5. The following error message comes up when I crash to desktop: "Unable to load icon file 9048_4382". After getting several other testers to talk to Lieutenant Brock I noticed that they too were crashing. This indicates that the problem is likely not client-side.

Second Example (Bad)

i talke to someone and then I cant play u suk gg thx bye

Where do I report bugs?

1. In-game through the /bug or /suggest functions
2. On the official beta bug forums provided by Blizzard
3. To the official beta bug and support email address provided by Blizzard

Section 6 : Credits/Special Thanks

This guide was written by Faeranicus and proofed by Loren.

Special Thanks to:

Loren - For organizing all of this!
All other staff at WoW Warcry - For the combined efforts that make our site what it is today!
	
	


World of Warcraft:
    This is the Beta that this site is looking after, so the main functions and options will be displayed and posted through out this site. The beta signups begin at the end of this month (by 31/01/03 at the latest). This game will be a MMORPG, as it entails creating a character and then exploring and playing within a massive online world. The game will be neverending, as it includes a "live staff" which will update the game with new quests, monsters, items, on a regular basis. The game will also be server based, as this eliminates many issues with cheating, and WoW's powerful servers allow play even on lower end computers or players with low 56k bandwidth. This game is truly going to be a game that you do not want to miss.
Status: Testing/Closed Beta
Release: Q1 2004 (Signups available by the end of January 2004)
Players: Blizzard hopes to get as many players involved as is possible
Support: Will offer support around the world, the beta will be held initially in Canada, the US, and Korea.
Website: http://www.blizzard.com/wow/




