
3/25/04

Boddozerg's Beginners Guide to Blacksmithing & Mining
Be sure to check out Kelvin Sorcerer's Recipe List for Blacksmithing

For today’s post, I will talk about tradeskills, with a focus on Blacksmithing. Blacksmithing is the only tradeskill that I have really gotten to an advanced level. My level 26 Orc is an expert Blacksmith with over 160 Blacksmithing skill (forget exactly how much) and the plans to Deadly Bronze Poniard, Silvered Bronze Shoulders, and Silvered Bronze Breastplate. (the only 3 profitable recipes I have)

Let me state that I am not really an elite Blacksmith. There are people out there who have 225 Blacksmithing skill (the current cap) and can create nearly any metal item you can imagine. These people have probably invested hundreds of Gold in buying ore and recipes, and have profited by hundreds of Gold selling their stuff. I am not one of these people - however, my experience is more like what most average WoW players will be going through. This is not a guide to super elite Blacksmithing and how to become horribly wealthy by spending 12 hours a day playing World of Warcraft. It is a rather basic guide and commentary on blacksmithing in World of Warcraft, with other tradeskills mentioned briefly.

Most Tradeskills in World of Warcraft are split into a 'gathering' skill and a 'crafting' skill. Here's a few of the gathering skills and the crafting skills that rely on them.

Mining -> Ore and Gems -> Blacksmithing, Engineering Skinning -> Leathers and Hides -> Leatherworking Herbalism -> Herbs -> Alchemy, Enchanting Fishing -> Fish (->Cooking) and Totally Random Items (no gathering skill required) Cloth -> Tailoring

Of course, there is quite a bit of crossover... Small amounts of Leather are required for many Blacksmithing, Engineering, and Tailoring recipes. Gems are required for many different tradeskills. Alchemy can be used to produce potions that are used by Blacksmiths.

Mining is one of the most lucrative tradeskills in World of Warcraft. Ore is worth a good amount of money, and Gems command absolutely stratospheric prices. Many players take up Mining without any crafting skill, such is the profitability of mining. A player's career in mining starts when he learns the Mining skill - with it, he gains the ability Find Minerals. This allows him to detect ore nodes in a fairly large radius around him. Ore nodes are found in mountainous regions and in caves, and are rather rare - many newbie players are frustrated as they do not find any ore for quite a while. With experience, you will get a sense of which areas contain Ore and which areas don't, and you'll be much more efficient in mining.

As you approach the ore node with a Mining Pick, you'll take "hits" at the node. Each node contains anywhere from 2 to 8 "hits" of Ore. Lower level areas tend to yield less ore, while higher level areas tend to yield more ore. Each hit will yield one piece of Ore plus other random items. Usually, each hit will yield 1-2 Stones. Rarely, you'll get a Gem as well. Every time a player mines a node, they have a chance of increasing their Mining skill. Raw Ore isn't very useful - you must find a Forge to smelt your ore into metal bars. Forges are plentiful in low-level areas but rare or nonexistent in higher level lands - this forces players to fly back to the big cities (Stormwind, Ironforge, Darnassus) in order to smelt their Ore.

The most basic type of Ore is a Copper Vein. Copper Veins yield Copper Ore and Rough Stones. They can also give Tigerseye, Malachite, and Shadowgem. The lowest level areas with Copper Veins are populated by enemies level 6 and up - but copper veins are abundant in all higher level areas. Copper is used to make many low level items such as Copper Chain Vests, Copper Sword/Mace/Axe, and Runed Copper Pants. However, Copper maintains its usefulness for quite a while. Copper with gems can become Runed Copper Breastplates or Gemmed Copper Gauntlets. Copper is combined with Tin to create Bronze. In addition, some items combine Silver with Copper, such as Thick War Axes and Large Copper Bombs.

At a higher level, you will start to encounter Tin Veins. You will find these with enemies level 14 and up - however, a level 14 area would have very rare Tin Veins and mostly Copper. The lowest level areas with large quantities of Tin will probably contain level 18-20 enemies. Tin Veins also yield Coarse Stones, Moss Agate, and Lesser Moonstone. Tin is never used by itself - it must be combined with Copper to create Bronze. Bronze is used in recipes ranging from low-level Rough Bronze Leggings and Rough Bronze Shoulders to high-level Silvered Bronze Breastplates and Silver Scale Breastplates. Bronze is very commonly combined with Silver or Gems.

Silver Veins are an extremely rare resource. They occasionally spawn in place of a Tin or Iron node. Because this replacement is random, you may find a Silver vein in a low level area, but this will be vanishingly rare. Silver is almost never used by itself; instead, a small amount of Silver is combined with Copper, Bronze, or Iron to create a powerful item. Silver Veins have a chance of yielding Moss Agates and Lesser Moonstones.

Iron Deposits yield Iron Ore, Heavy Stones, and the rare gems Jade and Citrine. They are found in areas level 25 and up. Again, a level 25 area would probably have more Copper and Tin than Iron - you have to go to a level 30 area to find large quantities of Iron. Iron can be combined with Coal to make Steel. Interestingly, Coal cannot be mined - it is purchased from NPCs for a steep price (20s). This makes Steel a horrendously expensive thing to produce. Iron makes decent level-20s equipment such as Green Iron Helms and Green Iron Leggings. Steel, often with Gold and Gems, makes all of the awesome stuff like Jade Serpentblades, Shadow Crescent Axes, and Golden Scale armor.

Gold Deposits work like Silver, but they only replace Iron nodes. Gold is combined with Iron to make insanely good equipment. Gold is one of the most valuable resources in the game, but Jade and Citrine are even more expensive.

Mithril and Truesilver are the higher level counterparts to Iron and Gold. High-level players have encountered them, but they don't do anything yet - Mithril can be mined but not smelted, and you can't even mine Truesilver.

The prices of ore and gems are set by the free market. Various blacksmiths bid on whatever Ore is offered, and highest bid wins. In reality, there are "market prices" for the more common ore and gems. These prices vary from day to day but a good estimate is:

Copper Bar: 50c-75c (may occasionally exceed 1s)
Shadowgem: 5s (this is pretty constant)
Bronze Bar: 2s-2.5s (occasionally exceeds 3s)
Moss Agate, Lesser Moonstone: 25s-50s
Iron Bar: 4s-6s (may rarely go up to 10s)
Jade, Citrine: 5g-10g(?)
Gold Bar: 20s-??
For those who are not familiar with Warcraft currency, 100c = 1s, and 100s = 1g. As they are high level and rare, it's hard to say what the prices of Gold, Jade, and Citrine are. Needless to say, I've never been wealthy enough to contemplate buying any.

The newbie blacksmith will look at the market prices of Ore, and look at the items he can produce with it, and realize that he's much better off selling his ore on the market than making any items with it. However, this does not mean that Blacksmithing is worthless. The thing is, there is a huge disparity in the value of items produced by low level recipes and high level recipes. For example, 10 Copper Bars can be used to make Runed Copper Bracers, which are worth next to nothing. However, those 10 Copper combined with 10 Tin, 2 Silver and some other materials can create a Silvered Bronze Breastplate, a good mid-to-high level Armor worth around 75s. Clearly, a high level Blacksmith makes much better use of 10 copper than a low level blacksmith can. The low level Blacksmith must use hundreds of Copper Bars forging low quality armor before he can ever turn a profit.

Although it is not profitable, even low levels of Blacksmithing are interesting and somewhat useful. The basic Blacksmithing skill allows the player to make Sharpening Stones and Weightstones out of the stones he finds in ore veins. These stones temporarily enhance the damage of your weapon. In addition, several low-level Blacksmithing recipes are useful - the low-level blacksmithed weapons are better than most newbie weapons, and some of the low-level armor is very good for low level characters.

However, low level blacksmithing is an investment. As you build multiple lowbie items (and hand them out to all the newbies in your guild) you really aren't getting your ore's worth - but you are gaining Blacksmithing skill levels, and that's what matters. Once your Blacksmithing skill reaches 115, you start to get slightly valuable recpies, and by 135 you have several good recipes available. By 150 skill Blacksmithing is solidly profitable, but gaining further skillups becomes more difficult - only the very elite Blacksmiths reach 180 and above.

However, there is another hitch to Blacksmithing. None of the truly valuable recipes can be learned from the standard Blacksmithing trainers. The good recipes are extremely rare drops from random monsters. As rare as they are, you'll almost always have to purchase them from other players. High level Blacksmithing recipes auction off at stratospheric prices. Yet, they are almost always worth it. The high end recipes produce items that are worth so much more than the materials used to produce them, a Blacksmith can purchase ore and gems at a high price and still turn a great profit. The truly high end Blacksmithing items command ridiculous prices, because where else can high level players get really good items? Monsters drop good items much too rarely for everyone to have one.

Thus, becoming a good Blacksmith is a matter of patience and investment. A novice Blacksmith should spend a lot of time hunting for Ore to level up his blacksmithing, and should save up all his money so that he can afford Blacksmithing recipes when he sees them being auctioned. Only then does Blacksmithing become a valuable tradeskill. A less dedicated player may not spend enough time obtaining Ore and practicing his Blacksmithing skill, and he may hesitate to pay a stellar price for a blacksmithing recipe. For him, Blacksmithing will not pay off - he would have been better off just selling all his Ore and purchasing items off other players.

This is not true for all tradeskills. For example, Engineering is inherently unprofitable. The vast majority of Engineered items can only be used by the Engineer himself - for example, an Engineer cannot give Dynamite and Target Dummies to his non-Engineer friends - they won't be able to use them. To go along with its lack of profitability, Engineering levels up much faster than Blacksmithing. It is an interesting tradeskill, as it is only for personal use and not for trade - definitely a good tradeskill for people who don't want to be bothered with lots of buying and selling ore and recipes.

Herbalism is interesting because the majority of herbal products are temporary. Alchemists produce a dazzling variety of potions, almost all of which have instant or short-duration effects. Only the potions used as Blacksmithing components can really count as "permanent". Herbs are much more common than ore, but even then, the amount of potions circulating in the game economy is sharply limited - potions are often consumed faster than they can be made. On the other hand, Enchanters use herbs to create powerful enchantments that affect items. Some enchantments are temporary, but many are permanent. Permanent enchants feel a bit like after-market additions to your car. They can cost quite a lot, but no matter how good they are, they don't really help the resale value of your item once you outgrow it. After all, while you really like the +1 damage enchantment, the guy purchasing your axe might prefer a Counterweight (+5% attack speed). Since any item can only have 1 permanent enhancement, the counterweight would overwrite your enchantment anyway.

Fishing is a unique tradeskill. It is a minigame involving clicking on a bobber to catch fish. Leveling up Fishing requires you to spend a lot of time sitting in one place fishing. Unlike most tradeskills, which require you to fight through monsters to obtain the tradeskill reagent, the best Fishing spots are those with no monsters anywhere nearby - you can't fish and fight at the same time. Fishing is much more interesting than you'd think. It doesn't just catch fish - fishing can catch totally random items, and you may pull up a high-quality item from the bottom of the sea! High level fishermen can pull up an amazing amount of valuable and semi-valuable items from the sea - I wonder who dropped all that stuff in there? However, fishing is only for those with way too much time on their hands - it is extremely time consuming and most of the time you just get fish. (of course, fish is quite good for Cooks to practice their skill on)

I have no experience with Leatherworking or Tailoring, but those skills seem a bit like Blacksmithing, although no where near as expensive to level up. Like blacksmithing, the low level cloth and leather equipment is only good for lowbies, and lowbies don't pay very well. However, at high level you can make some very good stuff. Unlike blacksmithing, tailoring and leatherworking only produce armor - weapons are generally far more expensive than armor in WoW, thus Blacksmithing is both more expensive and more profitable.

-Boddozerg
AKA KekekeROFL in Lords of Legac