Beta Diary #1: The Beginning
By Marian 'Fyrn' R. (05/27/2004)
We warmly welcome you all to our World of Warcraft Preview series. We will try a special approach here that we hope you will like. We'll start off with a general look on what we have been experiencing in our first few levels, the first few hours in the World of Warcraft. And then step up to a more detailed look into some of the possibilities you have in the game, such as Crafting. Read on for our first impressions and we hope you'll enjoy reading this and the following Articles as much as we enjoy working on them.

Part I – Findar's Night Elf Druid

OK I promised bits of news about the game as I spent time in it so here I go. Now I am not a graphics whore, and i would rather play a good Neverwinter Nights module than some shitty game that look real pretty, but after I created my Night Elf druid (I played a druid through most of EQ) i sat there for a good 5min just staring before I realized I was in the game. Currently I am at level 6, but I haven't really been leveling I have just been checking things out, drooling allot and questing. Now there isn't much that has been changed from the typical MMORPG formula but in typical Blizzard fashion they take the norm and run it through their version of a Rock Tumbler and polish the living hell out of it. The quest system, in my personal opinion, is very very very good and its only beta. The quests at their core are the typical delivery quests or go kill x mobs and bring me x amount of item, but they do it in such a way that it doesn't feel like its the same. These things are all done for a reason to advance the story/background of the game plus , for the most part they aren't repeatable but they usually point you in the direction you need to go to advance in the game. Not only do you get a little bit of coin or some damn good items for your time but you get 1/2-3/4 if your experience for that level just by doing the quests that are appropriate for that level. By level 2.5 after doing all quests I was just about full equipped for the next few levels and had plenty of coin for training and filling out armor slots. OK now how is combat, again I personally think it is polished, its still at its most basic form hit button and watch, use ability here, cast spell cast spell.. dead. The difference is you can move a little and keep casting.. you can be swinging your weapon and cast a spell in the middle without having to click a button to stop melee combat.. and if you are uninterrupted it auto recasts, very useful in the heat of battle. I have yet to get into the crafting system but from what I have seen it is deep and very very useful. I am a couple of levels away from getting my first animal form and once that happens I will sit down and write another preview with some new views on things and maybe i will give the crafting system a shot.



Part II – Fyrn's Human Warrior

I've started with a Human Warrior, as usual, this is my first choice character for any game. The ancient Human Warrior King. First off, World of Warcraft, in it's still early Beta stage is just as Ryan already said more polished than many other Games I've seen at that stage. At no point I encountered malicious bugs or anything of greater disturbance. The only thing you will also notice in the Screenshots we added, is the vast amount of dead bodies lying all around :) This was due to a bug in the game that would not clean up corpses as supposed, it has already been fixed. It didn't do anything but look funky anyway. Now, Melee Combat is plain fun. Even though the combat system is nothing new, it's not bad either. I haven't experienced any larger setbacks while playing nor have I been distracted by confusing quests or anything like that. Quests are straight forward, you get directions, people to talk to, foes to stomp – the usual. All the Quests I did so far where either of the “bring X to Y" type, or “kill X and retrieve Y", nothing fancy. But you have to keep in mind that my character is currently level 10, and the level cap has been raised to 39 just a little while ago. So I'm not really far into the whole thing. There will be larger, epic quests down the road.



Now another thing, apart from my character, that I haven't figured out yet is if there is housing in the game, or any other sort of possibility to dynamically influence the world. If you've read any of my prior Previews you will know that my opinion of a game depends upon that very much. Of course this is by no means a final statement, like nothing in a Preview is, or should, so I hope I can report something good in our second installment.

You can see all the World of Warcraft Screenshots in our Gallery on the Hub. We will be bringing massive galleries with all of our Beta Shots in the next days as well.

- Ryan "Findar" Delaney and Marian "Fyrn" Rudzynski for Massive Multiplayer Hell. 