Druid Beginner Guide, All Races
By 'Evendro' (08/22/2004)
Edits
8-23-04 : Edited level 4 to reflect the change in behavior of instant cast spells.


Druid Guide, 1-10

Druids are a very interesting class. A class that makes it difficult to write a guide for. Blizzard says that one of their strengths is “Multiple play style options.”, and they weren’t kidding. The slight problem is, these play options aren’t as apparent until later on in the game. Once access to Shapeshifting opens up, the window to a whole new world can be seen.

This guide will hopefully help you from levels 1 to 10. I will stop there because of the drastic difference in game play once the Bear Form Shapeshift is unlocked.

I’m not going to go through the ins and outs of every quest for every race that can be a Druid, instead I’ll outline a general play style that you can possibly adopt, adapt, do whatever you feel fit. The quests from levels 1 to 10 are usually quite self explanatory and easy to complete without much trouble anyway.

Getting Started

When you first enter the game as a Druid, you should have the abilities : Wrath, and Healing Touch. Wrath will be a good source of damage for you, and of course Healing Touch will heal you when needed. These will be your bread and butter. In a nut shell, just use wrath to pull, and at low levels, you can either continue to cast wrath while the monster is beating you, or switch to melee to conserve mana.

You can also learn your first Mark of the Wild rank for a slight fee. This buff is very, very nice. The first rank will only increase your armor, but it lasts for 30 minutes. It’s also an instant cast, so if it wears out during a fight, you can immediately rebuff yourself without being interrupted.

Level 4

It wont be until level 4 when you can shift your playing a bit. This is when Rejuvenation and Moonfire become available. Rejuvenation is a health regeneration (regen) spell, and Moonfire is a small Damage over Time (DoT) spell. There is one very important thing to know about these two new spells. Their casting time is instant. This means that in no way shape or form can you be interrupted from casting these two spells.

Now, you can pull with wrath, blast the monster until it reaches you, then once it does, cast regen on yourself and the DoT on the monster. If you’re unfamiliar with casting a friendly spell while in combat, all you have to do is this : Have the monster targeted and enter melee combat. When you use the regen spell, your cursor will have a slight blue glow to it to signify a spell about to be cast. You can then click on your portrait, or any other friendly, and the spell will cast. Rejuvenation is great because it’s instant, you wont sit there wasting time being interrupted and such, the spell just goes off.

Moonfire tends to be a ‘use it as you need it’ spell at this level, it is also an instant spell, but it can be fairly draining on the mana if used excessively. When you use Moonfire on a target, they will take an initial hit of larger damage, then slowly “tick” with additional hits of damage a few rounds after the first cast. If you’re in melee combat with the monster, you’ll have them targeted, and on the top where their portrait is (next to your own, where it lists their health and level), you’ll see the Moonfire icon on the creature. Once this disappears, your Moonfire will cease doing damage each tick, and you can cast it again if you wish. If you cast two Moonfires on the creature at once, the DoT effect will not stack. Instead, the DoT timer is reset, and it will do the ticks just as if you had cast a new Moonfire on the target, overwriting the old one. This is why it’s more efficient to wait until the first has worn out completely, then recasting.

One other thing that Rejuvenation is useful for, is running away. Since the cast is instant, you can be running away from a monster, and cast the spell while still moving. This way you’re constantly gaining health while fleeing.

If chasing after something significantly faster than you, Moonfire is very useful. You can cast this while running, and is very helpful for doing an injured creature in as it tries to flee.

Level 6

At level 6, you’ll be able to train Thorns, and Rank 2 Wrath. Since we already know what Wrath does, I’ll give a brief analysis on Thorns. This spell is another instant spell, but it only lasts for 10 minutes. Of all the buffs you have, you’ll find yourself casting this in combat more often than your others, due to the short duration. If you’ve ever played Diablo or Warcraft 3, you know what Thorns does. Whenever a melee attack strikes a character with the Thorns effect active, they receive damage. In this case, it is 3 damage for every hit against the caster. It may not seem like a lot, but it does boost your damage significantly, especially if you are meleeing a lot at this level.

Level 8

At level 8, we get our second rank of Healing Touch, and a new spell : Entangling Roots. This spell, if successful, will “root” (hold) a monster in place for approximately 12 seconds, dealing damage every tick to a maximum of 20 damage. There are two ways to use this, one is the caster approach, another is the escape route.

The caster route is starting a fight by casting Entangling Roots, then blasting the monster with Wrath, and Moonfire until it’s either dead, or the roots wear off. The escape route, is using this spell only when you’re jumped and either can’t fight, or don’t want to. Casting this spell, (provided it’s not resisted) allows for a nice getaway while the creature is stuck there.

Entangling Roots should not be used in conjunction with melee, I’ve noticed that when a rooted monster is attacked in melee combat, the roots break free almost immediately.

It should be no time until you’re level 10, and once you turn level 10, the world changes. That will be covered in another guide.

Questions, Comments, Suggestions?












Druid Intermediate Guide, All Races
By 'Evendro' (08/30/2004)
We'll be picking up right from where we left off.

Level 10

This is a nice Milestone level. You are able to learn : Mark of the Wild (Rank 2), Rejuvenation (R2), Moonfire (R2), and the long awaited Bear Form Shapeshift. On top of this, you will gain access to Bear Form exclusive abilities. Demoralizing Roar, Maul, and Growl.

We already are familiar with Moonfire and Rejuvenation, so there’s no need to re-address those. R2 of these abilities is just a stronger version of the one before. Mark of the Wild, however, is slightly different. If you’ll recall, R1 of this buff was a boost to armor. Now, on top of the boost in armor being increased significantly, you’ll also get a +2 bonus to all attributes. This buff only gets better as we go on.

Now, Shapeshifting. There is a lot to cover about this, so I’m going to try and go over this as efficiently as I can. First, the Shapeshift spell itself. You may have noticed that when you learned this ability, a second row of hotkeys appeared above the standard 1-0,+,- row. This is where your shapeshifting skills are stored. If you’d like, you can go in to your key settings and bind a key to the setting labeled shapeshifting form 1. I used Ctrl-1, but I did not feel the need for quick access to this spell until later on in my teens. The choice is yours, of course.

Once you have this all sorted out, it’s time to shapeshift. On shift, you gain a significant boost to armor, health, and attack. You also lose your mana bar, and gain a rage meter. The health and attack boost are easy, and are a set amount. The boost to armor however is a percentage of the armor you are wearing. The better the armor you have, the larger the boost you get. This is when it becomes really nice to have good armor as a Druid, since when you shift in to bear form, you get a huge benefit from it.

As of right now, your weapon does not account for any difference in your attack power while in Bear Form.

I mentioned the Rage meter. If you’ve played a Warrior, you probably don’t need any explanation of this, and can skip this paragraph. The Rage meter increases every time you hit, and every time you get hit. Obviously, you gain more rage if you hit, but you do gain a little bit when you’re on the receiving end of a blow. A critical hit will grant you a significant boost in Rage. When you are out of combat, your rage meter slowly drains down to zero. This is to signify your ‘calming down’ after a fight.

Some intricacies of the shift itself : Bear Form is an instant cast spell. The mana cost for it will scale higher as you level up, and is a decent amount. Usually the price is just under a third of your total mana. The health bonus is given to your max hp, and your current hp. Meaning, if you’re in Druid form and have 1/200 health, and the boost is (hypothetically) 100, you will have 101/300 health after the shift. When you shift out of bear form, the exact same happens. If you were at 101/300, you’d now have 1/200. You can not die from shifting out of bear form, your health will at minimum be set to 1.
While in bear form, you continue to regenerate mana, even though you do not have a mana bar. If you shift out of bear form, you lose all of your currently built up Rage.

You can not cast spells, or interact with NPCs while in Bear Form, but if you cast buffs on yourself (Mark of the Wild, Thorns), they will remain on you as you shift.

Let’s move on to the new Bear Form exclusive abilities. First, setting hotkeys for them. When you shift in to Bear Form, you’ll notice your first hotkey bar goes blank. This hotkey listing will appear when you shift, so you won’t have to set up a completely separate list to use your shifted abilities. Your Bear Form abilities will be listed under, you guessed it, Abilities, not spells. Set up your bar accordingly, and get ready to move on.

You should now have : Demoralizing Roar, Maul, and Growl. Demoralizing Roars usefulness is more apparent when soloing warrior type creatures near your level, or above. When used, this takes a small amount of rage, and debuffs monsters immediately near by you. This debuff reduces melee damage of the effected targets. The range of the spell is a radius around the bear, and is very short. If you’re planning on using this, it’s probably best to save it for when you get multiple pulls simultaneously. In 1v1 situations, try to fire off a Roar as soon as possible if fighting a melee centric class type monster. This will ensure that the debuff stays on for the greatest amount of hits. After all, what good is an attack debuff if you’ve already let the creature attack you for the entire fight.

Maul is your basic damage dealing ability as a bear right now. Like all of the bear abilities you have right now, it costs Rage. What Maul does, is it adds bonus damage to your next melee attack. If you’re fighting in bear form a lot, this is your most used ability at this level.

Growl is your taunt. Meaning it will anger the monster in to attacking you. It uses a small bit of Rage, and is completely worthless in solo fighting. There’s no reason to use this unless you’re trying to get a monster off another person. It is an instant cast spell, with the standard recast timer of about 1 second. You can fire off about 3 Growls to a single Maul for the same Rage cost, and if your groups life depends on you getting the monsters attention, this is what you use.

Druid fighting splits here

With access to Bear Form, you’re now able to either play the role of a tank, or that of a caster/healer. If you’re looking for the path of the caster/healer, refer to my previous guide at level 8, nothing has changed in that department.

However, if you’re looking to play the role of a tank, here is what I’d recommend. Before shifting, cast your buffs (Mark of the Wild, Thorns) on yourself. These help a lot, and never underestimate Thorns. During a fight, melee until you’ve obtained enough Rage to use Maul, then fire off this ability as often as you can. It usually takes two or three hits to get enough built up for Maul.

After one or two fights, your health is probably going to be a bit low. Shifting back to Druid form is free, and while you were a bear your mana has been regenerating, so you’re most likely at full. Heal yourself up, then shift back. This is a nice way to have very little downtime, while (excuse the pun) mauling your enemies to death.

Level 12

There’s not much new at this level. You’ll get Regrowth, and Enrage. Regrowth is like a hyper expensive, and hyper effective version of Rejuvenation. It should not be used to substitute Rejuvenation, but in different situations. The health it heals is about equal to your next Healing Touch (R3), but the mana cost is drastic, so you’re probably safer off just using your current Healing Touch, or Rejuvenation.

Enrage is a Bear Form ability that will built up your rage bar slowly, as if you were in combat. The down side to this, is that your armor is severely penalized. It’s a nice ability to have if you’re not taking the blows in a group, as it allows you to fire off more abilities with the extra Rage. You can use this ability to maintain rage while out of combat. If you’re just running around in bear form in search of quest monsters, and are in no real danger of getting jumped (we really don’t want that due to the armor decrease Enrage instills), you can easily get your meter up to 100 for the next big fight. Be sure that the icon for Enrage has faded before you start your combat though, so you have your full armor bonus.

Level 14

New abilities here include : Bash, Healing Touch (R3), Cure Poison, Wrath (R3), and Thorns (R2). Bash and Cure Poison are the newcomers, and with Thorns and Wrath just having increased damage, we shouldn’t have to cover those. The Rank 3 Healing Touch is a very big heal. So big, that it tends to border on the line of inefficient. You may enjoy being able to heal a huge amount of health at this level, but it also takes a very heavy toll on your mana. If you’re using the warrior style of play I outlined in the level 10 section, this spell is a nice one shot for when you unshift and reshift, as it will bring you from no health to full in one shot some of the time. For group usage, R2 of Healing Touch tends to work better, if nothing else, for mana conservation.

Bash is another Bear Form ability. This is on a one minute timer, and costs Rage to activate. However, unlike Maul, this ability is a “spell” that does not require the next round of combat to come. When you use Bash, the target is stunned for a short time, usually enough for you to get one or two hits in while it sits there, unable to attack. As I said earlier, it has a one minute timer, so you can’t use it over and over again. It’s nice to Bash running opponents as they flee, then finish them off. Or, if you’re in dire need of those extra free hits.

Level 16

Moonfire (R3), Swipe, Aquatic Form, and Rejuvenation (R3) are the abilities that will greet you as you visit your trainer at level 16. Same old story with Moonfire and Rejuvenation, they’re simply upgrades to the previous versions.

Swipe is a Bear Form exclusive. This attack will attack 3 nearby enemies, doing mediocre damage. Sticking to maul may be a better usage of Rage, and won’t disrupt any crowd control your group has in place.

Aquatic Form will turn you in to a berserk walrus type creature. You won’t get any special stat boosts or combat bonuses like you did with the bear, but this form allows you to swim faster than normal, and breathe underwater. It can only be used while swimming, and will dispel itself if you walk on land. If you want to fight underwater, you can shift in to bear form, and usually finish a fight before you’re out of breath. Then, when you shift to a seal, your breath is restored, and you’re able to breathe underwater again.

Another thing this is good for, is running away. It requires that you know your surroundings though. If you’re ever fighting near a body of water, try to keep this in mind if you have to run. If a fight starts to go sour, run to the water, shift in to walrus mode, and hightail it out of there. Refer to the guide about bear form, and don’t forget that when you shift out of bear form, you lose your health bonus. So, try to run early if you can, if you have around 200 health or less when you start to run, when you shift out you will most likely have 1 health, and that usually spells death.

Level 18

Only one “new” ability here. The upgrades you’ll get are to : Maul, Regrowth, and Entangling Roots. Our new toy is Faerie Fire. This is an extremely useful spell for both group and solo play. This spell will significantly lower the armor of the target, as well as make them unable to stealth or turn invisible (usually not an issue in Player vs Environment play, but something to keep in mind). A useful tactic is to pull with this, then shift in to bear form to do your beating. This spell is also an instant cast, and is fairly easy on the mana.

If you’re using this spell in a group, it’s usually good to save it only for creatures that take a while to die, and also if you have a very melee (read physical, archers included) centric group. Faerie Fire does not reduce magic defense, so if you’re in a group with the majority being casters and whatnot, it might be a safer bet to save the mana for healing or damage of your own.


Level 20 will bring the new Shapeshift : Cat Form, and look for a new guide on that soon.

Questions, comments, suggestions?















Dwarven Hunter Beginners Guide
By Marian 'Fyrn' R. (08/20/2004)
Dwarven Hunter Beginner's Guide.

Updates:
Added a paragraph about the process of taming
Added choice of food paragraph
Added another tip on how to find out what food your pet likes to the food paragraph
Added paragraph on renaming and abandoning your Pet
Added paragraph about weapon choice / Dual Wield

Again, the servers are down, so here I am with another Beginner's Guide. This time for a Class, not for UI Mods. I have just, like several hundred other people, played my Hunter from level 1 to 10, and I had to ask a lot of questions in the process. So I figured it would be good to answer the most frequent of them in a Guide to make it easier for new Hunters to get to level 10.

I will not explain at which level you gain which skill here, because the average player probably gets through to level 10 very fast and it is of no value to list when these very basic starting skills become available (and it doesn't matter really, as a Trainer will always be near you). I will instead explain two topics: Starting without a Pet, and then obtaining and starting with your Pet. Let's go. (Note: This guide is written for Dwarves, even though all unlocalized things probably apply to Night Elves or Tauren just as well)

Levels 1 to 10, Hunter without a Pet.

The first thing many people didn't notice is that you start out with a Gun already on your character. Just hit 'C'. To load your gun with ammo, open your character tab and ammo pouch, and drag the stack of bullets into the little field that is next to your gun (this is new, you can control which type of ammo the gun will use with that). Your gun is now locked and loaded, you're ready to shoot at things.

Now the only thing to do is questing, just go through all the quests in your area until you finally come across one that sends you to a new area – this happens all the way through level 10. And even though this doesn't have anything to do with Hunters – a lot of newbies asked where they find Felix' Box: Just read the quest, do it every time, with every quest. Blizzard has put the delay for accepting the quests until the text scrolled in for a reason!

You should be sent off Anvilmar to Kharanos some time, where you just continue to do your quests. At the entrance of Kharanos you will also find a Gunsmith, and just across the street on a little hill you will find the Hunter Trainer. These two, and any food vendor around will be the only NPC's you need (well, and also the Inn Keeper, you will need him twice for quests that require you to buy alcoholic beverages).

Here is a basic tactical suggestion:
First use Hunters Mark when you acquired the skill, it increases the damage you do with ranged weapons (for everyone who attacks the monster). Then shoot the monster with any of your special shots first, it will automatically switch to auto-shoot. Let the bullets fly until the monster is too close to you, and go melee by starting a melee attack. Any melee skill will cause you to holster your gun and whip out your melee weapon.

Skill combination I primarily used throughout the levels:
Start off with Serpent String (causing 20 Nature damage over 15 seconds), or Arcane Shot later on (instant shot causing 13 arcane damage).
Leave Auto Shot on until the monster closes in, then switch to melee by using Raptor Strike.
Eventually, when the monster starts running towards you, use Concussive Shot (slowing the monster for 2 seconds) when available.

While going from 1 to 10 you should also choose the type of weapon you want to use, and you should train the skill for that weapon type by using it in combat. You can learn 2 Handed Axes for 15 and 2 Handed Swords for 30 Skillpoints. You will have 15 skillpoints very fast, so if you want to go 2 Handed Axes, train it when you've got 15 together and get yourself a 2 Handed Axe to fight with. If you're going for Dual Wield (which you are able to obtain at level 20 from your trainer) then you should use at least one of the weapon types you are going to use later on. I would recommend using a Dagger for the start, as you get a good one to start with from a quest around Dun Morogh (forgot where). You can then go One/Main-Hand Sword+Dagger later on.

Once you've reached level 10 (you should still be in the vicinity of Kharanos – there are enough quests to get you to level 10), you can acquire your very own Pet.

Level 10+, taming your very own beast!

I started out by just looking around Kharanos for a beast that I like, I tamed anything from Boars and Bears to Leopards, but I didn't like any of them. I finally stumbled across Timber then, a named Wolf near Brewnall Village (I'm afraid everyone is going to take him now, but oh well). He is level 10, which was ideal, because you can not tame a beast that is higher than you. Your Pet also can't surpass your own level, so don't be confused if your Pet suddenly gains no XP.

You should learn all the Pet skills at level 10, those include:
Beast Taming, Beast Training, Call Pet, Dismiss Pet, Revive Pet and Feed Pet.

Then you should go and pick your Pet. Available around the area as mentioned are Boars, Bears, Wolves and Leopards for example. Once you picked a Pet you should stick to it for a while. If you like Spiders you could also go to Thelsamar and tame one of those around there. If you like Boars, you could do the same, and take a Mountain Boar which is level 10 already. Noone has figured out the whole thing, how you learn new abilities for your Pet, and so on yet - but that doesn't belong in a Beginners Guide anyway. If you're not too impressed with the standard beasts around your level in your area, you should try to scout a little and maybe find a named one, liked I used Timber. A good choice might also be Mangeclaw at one of the outposts (level 11 bear).

The process of taming is pretty straight forward. You target the beast you want to tame, and use your Beast Taming skill. You will see hearts floating all around you and the beast, and a progress bar. Once this progress bar is empty, you will know if it was a success or not. You should attempt this at full health, because the beast will attack you if you try to tame it.

Now that you have your Pet, the first thing you should do is train Growl (using your Beast Training skill). Your Pet has to have 10 training points for that, so just fight with it a little until you get a message that your Pet has gained loyalty.

But of course, in order for your Pet to gain loyalty, it must be happy. So before you go about to fight, you should feed your beloved creature. Unhappy Pets will only do 67% damage, and will loose loyalty over time, happy Pets will do 150% damage and gain loyalty over time and content Pets (around half of their happiness bar) will do 100% damage but also gain loyalty. You can check the status and stats of your Pet in your character window ( C ) in the Pet tab.

The choice of food for your Pet is pretty easy, as of now I think that every animal will at least eat flesh of some sort, either found off other animals or bought from a store. People also reported that feline beasts (cats) will also eat fish, I don't know if this applies to other types of Pets aswell. A way to find out on what diet your Pet is are the Stable Masters. When you enter the stable menu you will see a little icon at your Pet that will show your Pets diet when you hover over it.

When your Pet is fed, happy, and went to the second level of loyalty (Unruly) you can train Growl. Go into your Spell book & Abilities (I) and hit the Pet tab then. Drag the Growl skill to your Pet's hotbar, and activate it (it should be automatically enabled).

Your Pet can now taunt enemies, and it should be easier for it to keep a high enough aggression level so the foes don't let off your Pet and attack you.

Another thing that sets your Pet apart from Warlock pets for example, is the ability to name it. To rename your Pet, target it, right click on its portrait and select Rename. But(!) you can only name it once, which is also why you will get a confirmation dialogue. So choose wisely! If you named your Pet wrong right after you tamed it, just abandon it, tame it again, and pick the right name.

To abandon your Pet - which you will also have to do if you want to tame a new one, dismissing doesn't do the trick - also target it, right click on its portrait, and select Abandon.

And that's it. You're now a proud Hunter, owning your first Pet, and are ready to Rock'n'Roll.
Just try out combat involving your Pet as much as you can and get a grip for it.

Things to keep in mind:

Your Pet might run off when you leave it unhappy for too long, I can not confirm this yet though. I have let my wolf at unhappy for quite some time to test it, but he didn't drop in loyalty too fast. So don't be too afraid of your Pet becoming unhappy.

If you dismiss your Pet, it's happiness level will still drop. I don't know if it looses loyalty while dismissed though.

If your Pet dies, you don't need to go back to it's corpse to revive it. You can just revive it where you are, and it will come as if you called it – just with low health. It will also loose all happiness if it dies.

Oh and just a little tip: If you don't find enough flesh to feed your Pet with, the Inn Keeper at Ironforge's entrance sells food that you can feed your Pet.

This should be enough for a good start, remains to be seen how the Hunter works in the long run. And since this question is literally being asked every few minutes in General around Kharanos:

The Hunter Trainer is on a little hill at the south entry of Kharanos, next to the blacksmith, across the street from the vendor tents.

Check the right side for a few screenshots of me (Savage) and my Pet Wolf called Manowar from my gallery (over 2000 screenshots).
