Open Beta is upon us
By Marian 'Fyrn' R. (11/09/2004)
That is right, if you have just visited the World of Warcraft website, you might have noticed the text blob telling you that it is unavailable at this time.

However, you can start on downloading the PC Client or MAC Client in order to join in as soon as the sign ups are back online. We will of course inform you as this has happened.

Happy downloading!





New patch, servers down!
By Christiaan 'Calendir' G. (11/08/2004)
Finally, the patch that all Hunters and Paladins have waited for. Hopefully this will balance everyone out, without it being too carebear. Major changes this patch are the racial traits, hunter and paladin talents, the first raid encounter and the replacement for plainsrunning: Kodo mounts. Discuss these changes on our forums (with the full patch notes). You can also goto the european forums and read the full patch notes.
Now all we need to do is wait for the servers to come back online so we can test the new changes! I'm especially looking forward to it! 





Racial Traits Revealed!
By Christiaan 'Calendir' G. (11/05/2004)
Racial traits are now available for all races. Each race receives at least 4 traits (several passive and at least one active trait per race). Undead racial traits have changed to be more consistent with the new traits and Undead players are now considered Humanoid targets rather than Undead targets. Too read more about these traits, head on over to the offical racial traits page on Worldofwarcraft.com






Finally: Release Date Announced
By Marian 'Fyrn' R. (11/05/2004)
Blizzard Entertainment today announced the "Street Date" for World of Warcraft: November 23rd.

It is November 23rd, merely 3 weeks from now. While a release date in November wasn't completely impossible, it still comes unexpected. The recent announcement of Open Beta left many hoping for at least a month of game play, now it becomes apparent that it will merely be two weeks until the Open Beta servers will close.

But of course, this is not entirely bad news, as we all know how much pain of loss is involved with playing a character in Beta, knowing all the effort will be useless since the databases will be wiped. So, ships ahoy, we hope to see you all in Azeroth November 23rd.

The Press Release also holds the suggested retail price of $49.99, and $79.99 for the Special Collector's Edition. 












WoW North-America Open Beta Ending!
By Christiaan 'Calendir' G. (11/18/2004)
As posted by Tyren on the offical site:
"In preparation for the upcoming retail launch of World of Warcraft, we will be taking the North American open beta servers offline on Thursday, November 18. While this will mark the end of the open beta test, there will still be some work left for us to do. To provide the best experience possible at launch, we will be making numerous final optimizations to our hardware based on the data we've acquired during the open beta test."

"During our closed and open beta test phases, thousands of improvements were made to World of Warcraft. Those changes were made through game-client patches and updates to the game's server and database infrastructure.
As we moved closer to retail, we continued to make changes and optimize all of the code that makes up World of Warcraft until we reached the point where we felt we could create a gold master -- the version of the game that's currently being pressed onto the discs which will be available for purchase at retail.
Likewise, these processes must also take place on the server side to ensure that no out-of-date code, which could corrupt the retail version of the game, still exists. Before the retail version of the code can be installed, the current hardware must be wiped clean. This also includes the information on current accounts and characters that are being played on our test servers. So that all World of Warcraft players will be able to make a fresh start on our community site at launch, the same procedure will be taking place for the North American beta forums when the open beta test ends.
We realize that you've grown attached to your characters, and we're sorry that the end of the open beta test will require you to part ways with them. However, with the retail launch of World of Warcraft on November 23 comes the opportunity to begin a new adventure in Azeroth on fresh, untouched servers. Along with that, you'll have the knowledge that you played an instrumental role in the creation of a game of epic proportions that players will enjoy for many years to come.
We greatly appreciate all the time you've spent with us testing World of Warcraft, and we look forward to seeing you in-game!
Please note that this does not affect the ongoing European closed beta test. Further details regarding our plans for the closed and final beta tests in Europe will be announced on the European community sites next week." 








World of Warcraft Beta Test is Now OVER!
By Christiaan 'Calendir' G. (11/19/2004)
Posted by Indoflaven on the offical site:
"The World of Warcraft open beta test has now come to a close. During the beta test, over 500,000 players adventured through the lands of Azeroth and helped World of Warcraft on its way to becoming one of the largest massively multiplayer online games in the U.S.! The beta test community has been a tremendous source of information and feedback for the development teams, and we wish to thank our beta testers for participating in the beta test process. When the final version of World of Warcraft hits stores on November 23rd, you'll see the culmination of your hard work. The entire World of Warcraft team is now focusing on a smooth launch, and we look forward to hearing your thoughts about the game. Thank you again for your continued support with this project; we look forward to seeing you on in Azeroth."

The European Beta is still going on strong. More news on this is said to come over the next week... Stay tuned! 







7-Day Stress Test on Fileplanet
By Marian 'Fyrn' R. (08/27/2004)
The words "Test" and "Subscriber" don't make much sense together, unless you want to test a subscription. Paying for a Beta is somewhat new, and paying for a Beta that only lasts 7 days is probably not worth it. However, for about 10 bucks you can join a World of Warcraft Stress Test at Fileplanet.

Rather funny is also how you can click your way through several forms that keep up your hope of joining the Stress Test without subscribing - just to smack them down with a blunt NO. The sign up for non-subscribers will appear in "a few days". We will inform you when that happened.

And if you think you're going to be in the real Beta, read carefully: "This sign-up is only for the 7-day stress test. The beta test is completely separate and is taking place on different servers from the ones on which the stress test will be conducted." Blizzard has also confirmed this on the official forums. 







What to do when the Server crashes
By Marian 'Fyrn' R. (08/21/2004)
That is a question that bugs a lot of you lately. The boredom creates some of the weirdest happenings, and so an army of naked people just gathered in Stormwind to celebrate the crash of our beloved PvP server. Check inside for exclusive footage! (If this wouldn't be a Video Game, you would have to be of legal age to enter :))

A whole lot of people have been dancing, fighting or just watching during the past minutes. But all of the contributed to it by being naked! Check the right side for screenshots.

You should especially check the screenshots that are proof of our gnome friends being not so geeky! We can clearly see that gnomes gang up to get on to human women. Also of interest: the rather weird physique of Night Elven women.

You can see all the screenshots in my gallery.







Blizzard shuts down Server Emulator Community
By Marian 'Fyrn' R. (08/20/2004)
The probably first bust in the history of World of Warcraft has hit the GotWoW? community. GotWoW? was a website dedicated to developers of server emulators, and encouraged the spreading of the World of Warcraft Beta Client by publishing source code and ready to run executables of such server emulators.

As of the 13th August, the domain GotWoW.net has been turned over to Blizzard Entertainment, and now only hosts a message to those who actively participated in this community and in projects to emulate World of Warcraft Servers.

Blizzard:
While we appreciate the devotion and enthusiasm the GotWoW? community has shown for World of Warcraft, the development of emulator servers directly contributes to the illegal copying of the beta game client and creates the opportunity for people to continue to play on unauthorized servers after the completion of the World of Warcraft beta test.


Blizzard Entertainment also offers temporary amnesty to those illegaly developing such emulators. If you turn over the complete Source Code of your emulator and stop development, you will be free of legal actions from Blizzard's side. Remember that this is only a temporary offer, and that if you continue to develop such an emulator, Blizzard Entertainment is likely to stop you by other means.

Blizzard:
Leaders from various emulator-server development teams, including StormCraft, Vibe, and Khaos, have turned over their code and stopped development of emulator servers. We are asking that those of you who are continuing to operate unauthorized emulator servers for the World of Warcraft beta take this opportunity to voluntarily stop these efforts and turn over your code to Blizzard as well. For a short period of time, Blizzard will grant amnesty to those who comply with this request. Please contact us at wowsc@blizzard.com for more information.


This message should be fairly clear, and after Blizzard Entertainment has shut down several projects of this nature in the past (including the very famous BNetd, an emulator of Battle.net Servers), it should also be clear that Blizzard will take every step necessary to protect their property. 












WoW introduces : Quests to die for?
By 'Evendro' (08/20/2004)
We all knew that WoW is very quest-centric, but quests when you're dead?

It has been recently discovered that even when you're dead, you're able to accept certain quests. A screenshot can be found here.

For those that aren't familiar with the Death system in WoW, read this.










EU Beta Start Rumors
By Marian 'Fyrn' R. (09/04/2004)
A German Magazine yesterday published news that it has been confirmed that the European Beta will start this month. An exact Date has not been given, nor have they named any source. We will try to confirm this and post an update Monday.

Further rumors say that the European Beta is merely a somewhat more lengthy stress test for the European Servers, but this as well has not been confirmed by an official source.










Drastic Chage to Tradeskills in WoW.
By Peter 'Hejog' Clark (09/10/2004)
Blizzard:
In the next patch (no ETA as of yet), most trade skills are being renamed to "professions," and the way in which players acquire and learn them is changing. You will no longer learn different professions by paying for them with skill points. You'll still learn them by speaking to the appropriate profession trainer. However, players will now be restricted to learning two professions. We decided to change the skill system to make it simpler, balanced, and more intuitive. The new system should allow everyone to participate in one to two professions, and create a much more vibrant market for goods generated from professions.

We strongly encourage players to choose the two professions (trade skills) they wish to keep before the patch goes live so as to avoid the possibility of losing a hard-earned profession. If you have more than two trade skills known on your character, two will be chosen randomly to be retained as professions. The others will be eliminated from your character. Please unlearn the skills you do not wish to keep, and make sure that you only have two trade skills left on your character. To unlearn a trade skill, open your Skills window by pressing the hotkey “K.” Select the skill you wish to unlearn and click the Unlearn button that appears to the right of the skill.

The professions are: alchemy, blacksmithing, enchanting, engineering, herbalism, mining, leatherworking, skinning, and tailoring.

The secondary skills are: cooking, fishing, and first aid.

Several old trade skills are being turned into secondary skills. These do not count toward your two-profession limit, so players can learn all three secondary skills, in addition to their two professions, without restriction. The survival skill is being removed and campfires have been folded into the cooking profession.

No More Skill Points

With the changes to trade skills, skill points (SP) will be removed from the game, and currency will be used instead to train skills formerly based on SP.

Mount trainers will now require you to have a certain level of reputation with their respective city in order to acquire a mount.

No more sp = yay, however, only having 2 professions limits almost every level 40+ character (except me... mining and engineering only here) -- I know of loads of level 50-55 characters with 3, maybe more artisan tradeskills.
Only time will tell how well this large change works. 





Item Levels Changing
By Peter 'Hejog' Clark (08/14/2004)
Blizzard is letting everyone know that:
Blizzard:
The patch will modify the levels of several items, so if your character has an item equipped and no longer meets the requirements for that item, the item will be removed. If your character has bag slots open, then each item removed will go into an available bag slot. However, if your character does not have bag slots open, the item will be sucked into the Emerald Dream, where it will wait for you until you clear enough bag space to hold the items. Once that’s done, you’ll be able to log out and then log back in to have the items appear in your bags.

Tell everyone! nothing worse than spawning in the middle of level 44 elites with no armour!







Interface changes introduced by latest patch
By Marian 'Fyrn' R. (08/19/2004)
The changes not only include the new handling of the chat interface, where you now have to hover your mouse over the window to have the tabs appear, and right click a tab for (improved) settings.

If you tried to use Cosmos with this patch, you might have figured that it doesn't work. A bold "Your interface folder is out of date" with only the choices of deleting it or quitting the game should have popped up upon launch. So what is new, how do you get back your Cosmos, and what are the benefits? Read on.

First of all, Cosmos just plain doesn't work with this patch due to the changes listed. Wait for their team to come up with a new version that is compatible, until then, live without the bars and whatnot. Blizzard even dedicated a thread to this.

But now to the good news for upcoming UI Mods:

Addon Support.

UI Mods are now thrown into the Interface/AddOns/ directory, and get their own .toc allowing them to set Title, Description and even add on which version of the official UI this works. Also new: dependencies. If your mod depends on another mod, you can add a Dependencies line and have these mods loaded before yours.

Slouken:
In the next push, the game will automatically load UI mods which are placed in the InterfaceAddOns directory. They must be placed into a subdirectory, and have a .toc file of the same name within that subdirectory. The table of contents file can contain keywords providing more information about the addon to the game


The Bindings.xml format has changed

These changes are minor, but need to be addressed anyway, read the thread for more info.

Probably one of the most important changes: Persistent variables are in

This pretty much means no more odd compressing for data storage from inside an UI Mod. This is memory capped, means that all data stored must fit within the 32MB limit allocated to the Interface. This should not be a problem, unless you use memory eating mods like Cosmos. Quote: "For reference, the default UI uses 8MB, and cosmos uses 16MB".

As mentioned above, there now is a memory cap for the interface

The complete interface including WoW's own interface may only use as much as 32MB. And as mentioned above, this should not be a problem unless you use several memory hungry mods like Cosmos.

This is about it, World of Warcraft comes with a set of new functions and alot of changes to their own UI of course, but these are too numerous to list and are of no importance to the average user or UI modder. 







Euro Blizzard is Recruiting! (again)
By Peter 'Hejog' Clark (08/19/2004)
It seems blizzard is looking for more Games Masters, Community Managers and Customer Service Reps in their European offices! Feel free to apply here(de)(fr)
Good luck! and feel free to shoot us some exclusive news... ;)









Bye stress testers :)
By Peter 'Hejog' Clark (09/13/2004)
The thousands of stress testers have had their fun -- and the test is now over :) Blizzard is adding a whopping 576 people into the closed beta! I look forward to finding out who is going through, and how many levels they reached in a week (rumours are that the highest was a level 48 mage), if anyone knows, please tell us.
If any stress testers would like to comment on there experiences, we'd love to here from you, my email address is pc@mmhell.com, or just post on the forums










Quest Introduction
By Richard 'Raven' W. (02/25/2004)
As a fun way to learn more about Azeroth and advance the story line, quests form the foundation of the World of Warcraft adventure experience. From simple tasks such as gathering supplies for a local blacksmith to complicated endeavors such as infiltrating the stronghold of a twisted cult, quests are a constant source of risks and rewards for characters of every race.


Thanks to their wide range of complexity and the sheer volume available, quests will continually provide players with challenges that are engaging and well worth undertaking, regardless of how much or how little time they have to play each day. And while many quests can be finished by individual players relatively quickly, others can require multiple players to adventure together for as much as a week or more.


Performing the actual work involved for a quest has its own rewards, but in addition, a considerable experience-point bonus will usually be awarded once the character reports to the appropriate NPC (non-player character) to conclude the quest. Characters can also receive money and/or magic items in exchange for completing quests, not to mention trade-skill recipes, spells, buffs, and much more. Also, World of Warcraft features a flexible reward system: players are often able to choose from a selection of quest rewards that best suit their character or their tastes.
	

Finding Quests:

Quests are easy to find and acquire. Most commonly, players must simply talk to an NPC with an exclamation point (!) above his or her head. The exclamation point indicates that that particular NPC has a quest available. A question mark (?) above an NPC’s head makes it easy for players to see which NPC they must return to in order to complete their quests. There are also indicators to let players know which NPCs will have quests available in the near future. A number of other ways to activate quests exist in the game, which we'll leave to players to discover.


NPCs noted with an orange
exclamation have one or
more available quests

	

An orange question mark
means you and the NPC
have outstanding business

	

NPCs noted with a silver
exclamation have quests that
will be available when your
character reaches a higher level


Quest Log:

Quests that have been accepted appear in the player’s quest log, color coded by difficulty level. The details of each accepted quest -- including the quest’s requirements, which NPC to speak with once those requirements are satisfied, and the reward(s) that will be available – are easily accessible in the log. Quests can be abandoned at any time, and they can easily be reacquired as well. Furthermore, quests are divided up in the log by region to help players identify which ones to work toward completing depending on where they happen to be in the world.


Quest Highlights:


    Quests are themed to specific areas. For example, quests found in the Undead regions of Azeroth are much different from those found in the Human regions.


    Quests help players explore the world, gradually leading them into new areas.This helps players become familiar with their surroundings at a good pace and opens up new challenges for them as they expand their boundaries.


    Quests often have multiple reward choices. Players can select the reward that interests them the most.


    Single-step quests are available for busy people without a lot of time to play, and large, multi-part quests that build to epic conclusions are available as well.


    Many cool things can be found only by completing certain quests.



A Sample Quest:

Resting in Pieces

Received: Silverpine


	
The Mass Graves, southwest of Garren's Haunt, were made to accommodate the...impressive...number of deaths Tirisfal suffered when the Plague first came. The bodies in these graves have so far been spared an undeath, but the Scourge now send Rot Hide Gnolls to gather the corpses and use them to bolster their armies.

Per the wishes of Brill's Magistrate Sevren, your task is twofold: slay the Rot Hides at the Mass Grave and Garren's Haunt, and gather from them the Embalming Ichor that gives them life.



	
Your task nearly complete, you kneel down to inspect the belongings of a recently slain Rot Hide Graverobber. On his maggot-ridden corpse hangs a small purse of gold, and clutched in his arms you find a grotesque severed head--a head that looks like it has something to say...



	
Alaric "The Talking Head" speaks ..

"You don't look like a rot hide. Good. I had lost hope...

My name is Alaric, and I was once Thule's head servant and bodyguard. He used his magic to "protect" me from the Plague of Undeath, but instead his spell gave me an unlife from which I cannot escape. And after creating the cursed rot hide gnolls, Thule beheaded me... and gave my head to the gnolls as a plaything!

Please, take me to my body. I believe the gnolls buried it in Fenris Keep, near the stable, in an unmarked grave."


	
The head calls itself Alaric and implores you to carry it to the remains of its body. According to Alaric's disembodied head, its once-attached carcass now lies in a grave located near the stables of Fenris Keep. Feeling perhaps a small bit of pity for the head, you graciously decide to accept the quest and so begin the journey to the crescent-shaped Fenris Isle, located south of The Undercity, within Lake Lordamere.

More servants of the Scourge have taken up camp at Fenris Keep. After battling your way to the stables, you find a shallow grave that matches the description given by Alaric, containing the remainder of his person. Delighted at the reunion, Alaric hastily reassembles his anatomy. He gives you his thanks as well as a pair of boots he declares he no longer requires. This quest is at an end, but Alaric has further use for your able body should you be willing to assist him. 










New Hunter Information
By Dave 'Ardale' S (08/05/2004)
Tigole has been kind enough to reply to a post giving more information about the upcoming Hunter class. Check out that link or read this full article for more information.

"On a side note, you will be able to tame elite mobs and many *unique* named beasts. Taming an alite mob will not give it any bonus hit points, however. The only reason you'd want to do this would be for cosmetic reasons (you like the way that particular beast looks) or else to procure a beast with special abilities."

" Helboars are technically demons, so you would not be able to tame one. Although Warlocks will find some fun uses for them >=]

Also, Black Drakes fall under the category of Dragonkin (formerly Dragons, but that was confusing people). So no black drake pets either.

I've spent the morning playing the hunter. You guys are in for a *serious* treat. The class has so many diverse functions. You can choose to play your hunter in so many different ways.

Some of his cool abilities include:

Beast taming -- choose a beast, tame it, name it.
Beast training -- teach your beast new abilities.
Traps -- these rule... many different uses
Stings -- special shots that debuff your enemy
Beast lore -- get special information about beast targets
Aspects -- a cool line of buffs
Beast fear -- run away little doggy

There is so much more that I am leaving out."

--Tigole from the WoW Beta board. 








Blizzard has recently announced new information in regards to the next patch for the WoW beta client. One of the most exciting things to note is the implementation of the Hunter class. Finally we'll get to see what the revamped hunter class is capable of.

Hunter Class
Gnomish and Goblin Engineering
Ungoro Crater (48-55 Zone)
Felwood (48-55 Zone)
Burning Steppes (50-58 Zone)
Blackrock Depths (48-56 Dungeon)
Rogue Talents
Priest Talents
Auction House Improvements
Deathstalker Vincent is finally laid to rest
Lots of other things!

Some of this stuff may or may not be included in the patch, but it’s all being worked on. Don’t send the lynch mob after me if we hold some of the content =P

Oh, and here’s one the PvP server folks will like:

Faction specific graveyards. If you’re Horde and you die in Hillsbrad you’ll end up in Tarren Mill. Alliance will go to Southshore.


We’re also doing tons of bug fixing and optimization.

--taken from WoW Beta Message Board. Posted by Tigole 







Euro Signups Concluded
By Dave 'Ardale' S (07/26/2004)
I hope all you Euros didnt procrastinate too long because the signups for WoW Euro Beta are now closed for business.

The sign-up period for the World of Warcraft European Closed Beta Test is now over. Please continue to check here for updates and information on when the European Closed Beta Test will begin.

Testers who are chosen to participate in the Beta Test will be notified in the coming weeks by e-mail. Please note that we can neither accept any additional applications nor make any changes to the information on anyone’s current application. Also note that we are unable to comment on the status of any applications.

Blizzard wishes to thank everyone who has registered to join the European Closed Beta Test of World of Warcraft; we look forward to seeing you online! -- taken from www.worldofwarcraft.com 








New guide: Auction Houses
By Adam 'underplay' Adam (07/09/2004)

Blizzard has just released a new guide for Auction Houses, for the guide click here



Source: World of Warcraft Beta Site








More Details of the upcoming patch!
By Peter 'SonOfMoria' H. (07/05/2004)

Earlier today, Blizzards Kat posted detailed informations about the non-combative pets included in the upcoming patch on the World of Warcraft forums. But Kat wasn´t satisfied with giving us just a preview on the upcoming push, she went ahead and even introduced the pets which will be added with the next patch.



For the original statement including a detailed list of the added pets read the full article.



The following statement was posted by Katricia:





For the initial implementation of non-combative pets, the team used ambient creatures that were already located in the world: i.e. No new art was necessary. They were placed in the following areas:



Cats: Elwynn Forest

Rabbits: Dun Morogh

Parrots: Booty Bay

Dragon Welpling: Rare item drop



The next patch will include the following additional pets:



Ground Hog: Thunder Bluff

Snake: Orgrimmar

Roach: The Undercity

Owl: Darnassus



I’ve spoken with the art team about adding monkeys, dogs and ferrets. We won’t see them for a little while since they are low priority, but the team has added them to the list!



~Kat :) 










More details of the upcoming patch!
By Adam 'underplay' Adam (07/03/2004)







Katricia has posted some more sneak peaks of the next patch.



Sneak peak 2



Non-combative pets will be added for Horde characters.

The Blasted Lands will be opened.

Artisan Herbalism will be added.

Getting attacked or damaged while on a

Nightmare will no longer dismount its master.



Sneak peak 3



Auction Houses will be open for business!

A new Guard System will be implemented to help protect NPCs from invasion.

Plains Running will be available for Tauren.

Artisan Tailoring will be added. 











Katricia has posted a Peek at some of the changes coming in the next path for World of Warcraft:



    The level cap will be increased to 50.


    The Sunken Temple, a dungeon in Swamp of Sorrows, will be opened.


    Many of the quests in The Barrens will be reworked or polished.


    New death graphics will be implemented. 










Raid on Silverpine
By 'Findar' (06/23/2004)

With the PvP Server being added in the last push testers have been having a field day by raiding Horde and Alliance cities. The World of Warcraft Community site has added 14 screenshots of a recent raid in Silverpine Forrest.




    
    Faced with the daunting task of eliminating Horde forces in the heart of Silverpine, an army of Alliance men and women formed ranks in Menethil Harbor. From there, they begin their arduous trek, as they marched through the Hillsbrad Foothills where even the rumbling giant Fozruk wandered over to pay his respects to the passing army.
    
    
    
    As the Alliance troops moved into the depths of Silverpine Forest, a lone Undead scout was able to spot the approaching forces from afar. Realizing the danger, she hastily sprinted back to The Sepulcher and raised the alarm, warning her brethren of the oncoming assault. Sounds of battle were soon heard echoing across the backdrop of The Sepulcher’s graveyard as Alliance and Horde forces clashed, unleashing their raw and unbridled fury upon one another.
    
    
    
    Horde soldiers quickly drew up a line of defense upon the forest grounds, challenging the Alliance soldiers to cross and meet their fates. The line proved to be sound as the Alliance assault was slowly driven back by the minions of the Horde, forcing the Alliance combatants to retreat east of The Sepulcher in the hopes of reaffirming their resolve and regrouping to turn the tide of battle. However, the Horde forces completely routed the remnants of the ragtag army as they rapidly located the cells recuperating in the area and overwhelmed them with their superior numbers and more experienced soldiers.
    
    
    
    Alliance forces fought valiantly in what ultimately became a battle that the Horde was destined to win. Fate met completion that day, but the struggle for Azeroth continues to rage on with every passing hour…

    







Agility Modifier Explained
By 'Findar' (06/23/2004)
    
    Today Kat gives the community some clarification on the relationship between Rogues, Agility and Damage Per Second.
    
    
    
    
    
    Attributes have been modified to clarify each individual attribute's role for all characters. This change is designed to make every attribute have some value to each and every class. While clarifying the roles of Strength and Agility, the team decided to make Strength the main Damage Per Second (DPS) modifier. This was a big change for Rogues (and eventually Hunters) who previously utilized Agility for DPS.
    
    
    
    Agility is now used to determine critical hits, dodge and basic defense for all classes. To make Agility specifically attractive to Rogues (and Hunters), they now receive additional bonuses for critical hits and dodge abilities.
    
    
    
    Expect more attribute changes to come as the team continues to experiment. To that purpose, it’s very possible that Agility will be reinstated as the DPS modifier for Rogues (and Hunters) as the team works through the best solutions.
    
    
    
    Thanks for your feedback and comments. I apologize that this information was not included with the Patch Notes since it is not technically a bug and is currently working as intended.
    
    
    
    ~Kat :)
    

    








Race War Tips Page
By 'Findar' (06/23/2004)

The World of Warcraft Community site has added a new page, Race War Tips.

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    Race War servers allow players of the Horde and Alliance to fight each other in addition to the other enemy monsters in the world. Some players prefer the challenge of facing other real players rather than playing against computer/server controlled monsters/characters. Common reasons for this include: more strategy, excitement, the thrill of defeating a real player and imagining their reaction when defeated. Race War servers aren't for everyone so be aware of what you're getting into before joining. You must be prepared to put up with high level players trying to attack you when you least expect it. You must also be prepared to fail a quest because of enemy interference. There will be quests that are especially difficult because they take place in enemy territory. You'll have to dodge and/or defeat enemy players to complete your quest.
    
    







Rest System Explained
By 'Findar' (06/21/2004)

    In response to a well thought out post by a tester about the rest system Ogre gives a full explanation of how the current system works. With his explanation I think they found a very good way of helping the casual, couple of days a week, player feel like they aren't being punished for playing every day for hours at a time.
    
    
    
    
    
    The original post in this thread is a good description of how things are supposed to work.
    
    
    
    Once you hit about level 14, the "Normal" state lasts for 5 bubbles of pure monster kills (the rule is 5 bubbles or 5000xp, whichever is greater, and I believe the level at which 5 bubbles is greater is 14). It takes 11 hours to gain that much bonus experience back. So if you hit tired and log off in an inn for exactly 11 hours and 2 minutes, you should gain back enough bonus XP to get you through exactly 5 bubbles at normal. Any time beyond moves you gradually into "Rested".
    
    
    
    The maximum amount of bonus experience you can ever accumulate is 12 times the "normal" cap. Getting that high requires being in an inn or city for about 5.5 days. Since you are getting twice as much bonus experience at rested as you are at normal, bonus xp will be depleted twice as fast at rested as it will at normal.
    
    
    
    Since you are always resting when offline, even if outside (at 1/4 the rate of an Inn), the character selection should almost never say you are tired. The only time you would ever see that is when logging out if you manage to log out and load the character select screen in less time than it takes to accumulate 1 point of bonus XP. It should, however, say rested sooner or later, but it is independent of the in-game calculations, and may have a bug of its own.
    
    
    
    There is no longer any penalty for leaving an Inn early, you are constantly accumulating bonus experience while in an inn or city. If you leave and come back, the only time lost is the time you were outside. You do not have to worry about wasting an 11 hour rest session because you left after 10 hours. You will still have earned 10 hours worth of bonus experience.
    
    
    
    The basic goal for this system is that someone who plays for a few hours every night will spend some time in rested, a little more time in normal, and a little time tired, and be able to repeat that again the next night. But if you only play a few nights a week or only play on weekends, you will spend a much larger portion of your time at rested.
    
    
    
    That's how things are supposed to work in this version. QA is trying to reproduce the problems some people have experienced, we will get them fixed if we can find them. And as always, how things are supposed to work now isn't necessarily how the final product will work. Finding out what works and what doesn't is why you're all here. 







    




Patch Going Live Now
By 'Findar' (06/14/2004)

While I was wandering around the snowy lands of the Dwarves a nice little message when system wipe "PATCH< NOW". See everyone in a few hours (hopefully).












Kat Musings: Weekend in Review
By 'Findar' (06/13/2004)

Kat mentioned that the new patch was due to go live Sunday but is being postponed and to check the forums today for more info.



Kat goes through her "papers" and gives players tidbits about upcoming class changes:

Priests, Shamans, Warriors, Druids, Mages, and Rogues.







Kat musings
By 'Findar' for Official News (05/20/2004) [#433] Link | Discuss in Forum
Kat gives the community a little rundown about item categories in WoW.

Kat touches on the subject of collection quests and how they are being refined by the dev team to be more enjoyable.

Kat responds to a player's complaints about the Horde zones having a lack of content.

Kat gives an explanation as to why guns and other such secondary weapons are not visible on character models.

Kat explains why only one temporary enchantment is allowed per item.







Kat musings
By 'Findar' for Official News (05/17/2004) [#430] Link | Discuss in Forum
Ok before we get into Kat musings I want to apologize for my lack of posts, the main MMOGHell site kept me busy during E3, but luckily Rulan stepped up to the plate and cover my butt, thanks Rulan. Now onto the musings:

In a thread that touches on game performance Kat talks about some of the things being worked on to improve the overall performance of the game.


For all those who enjoy PvP Kat talks about a comment that was made at E3 about the future of PvP in WoW.
















