Gen Con 11-14 December 2003, Anaheim, California

Contributors: Philip Shanon, Sugatora, 21_blessings, aferrer and SoCxRhijord.

Only four new screenshots were released on the press cd:

    Bloodhoof Village
    Lordaeron
    Galleon docked in the Wetlands
    Wooden Cannon

•  = Latest addition.

DiscussAn ongoing thread discussing the information gleaned from this show can be found here.  If you have your own report you can leave it there or email it to rush@worldofwar.net.

Another report by TehSuq can be found here and GanjaGorilla has posted his thoughts on the show.

• Echod16 managed to take a few digi-cam screens at the show.

•  Kitzofsorrow sent over 7 new shots which you can find in the gallery, labeled as new.

New or updated information 

Beta

•  Rep doubted it would be out this year. Rep expected a 2004 release.

Characters

Druid

•  Shape shifting to cat form available from level ten.

•  Have underwater mount.

•  Has the following spells Natures Wrath (a direct damage spell), Mark of the wild (like roar),  entangling roots, Nature's touch (like heal) and Rejuvenation, Disembowel.

Hunter

•  Tame Beast skill not available until level ten.

•  Can't duel wield.

•  Orange bar in screenshots is the Hunter's 'Focus'. It makes their ranged attack more accurate.

•  Mage

Mages have a spell that is able to open a portal that lasts for a week or so, to different cities, and possibly other locations. Mages can teleport themselves easily to cities.

Paladin

•  At level 20, Divine Shield grants immunity from all attacks for ten seconds. This aura was available to the Paladin in Warcraft III also.  Here it renders the Paladin invulnerable to physical and magical attacks.  It's good to see that even at a high level it's not too powerful a skill with only ten seconds immunity, just enough to get out of a hot situation.

•  Get spells like: Turn Undead, Sense Undead, Exorcism

•  Can use swords but can not use their talent points to specialize in them. They can only specialize in 2H or 1H maces. Paladins should be able to use firearms.

•  Paladin Level 1 started with Holy Light and Holy Strike (a skill that involves him jumping up with both hands on his hammer to attack an enemy). He also had the basic talents of dodge and block (defensive talents). At level 2 he acquired devotion and healing (+armor and +regeneration for him and his party).

Rogue

•  Get a speed buff called Sprint at higher levels. This means that together with the Rogue, Shaman as a shapeshifted Timber Wolf, Druid as Werewolf and the Tauren race with their 'Plains Running' innate ability are the classes with an accelerated running speed (without mount)

Shaman

•  Shaman's can shapeshift into a timber wolf

Warrior

•  Can duel wield.

•  Can kick.  Has been used at Gen Con to interrupt those casting a spell on the Warrior.

•  The following skills could be cast with around 10-15 rage:  Rend, Kick, Punishing Blow, Strike.

Races

•  Each Race has an intro cinematic to explain the races background.

•  Humans get extra points for trade skills as a racial trait. 

•  Dwarves get: natural mining, treasure finding (senses treasure on map) and frost resistance as a racial trait. 

•  Nightmare mounts for Undead renamed to Fel Steeds.

•  They are not sure about Gnome or Troll mounts, they guessed the gnomes would ride either kittens, bunnies or squirrels (we think they're pulling our legs here)

•  Gnomes and Dwarves get Frost Resistance as racial trait. This is new information to add to the other resistance racial traits we already know about, to shadow magic for Undead and to nature magic for Night Elves. 

Communication

•  Gnome dance includes him slapping an imaginary butt.

•  Undead dance includes head banging

•  Using the /tell command, you can send private messages to anyone and they will understand it regardless of faction.

•  /follow command implemented.

•  Voice Emotes are unique to each race.

Trade Skills

•  Cartography will be a trade skill. It may reveal more of the map to you.

•  There are different kind of fishing poles, there are the best fishing poles, and the novice ones. Your character casts out into the water. When your bobber goes under, you click it and a fish appears in your inventory. If you don't click it, you lose the fish. The fish can be cooked with the cooking skill.

•  Each Trade skill has about 30 things available to make.  We assume this means that for furniture making there would be 30 pieces of furniture available to make eventually, leather making would allow you to make a possible 30 pieces of armour and so on.

You can trade for services

    "Say, John the Warrior wants poison effect for his sword. Dave the Rogue wants boots and ten gold. You open the trade menu between them and John puts in the boots, gold AND sword...the Rogue can automatically upgrade the weapon once the trade accept button is hit. And the warrior will automatically get back his new upgraded sword and the Rogue will get his boots and gold."

Talents

•  Each level up gives you 10 talent points (TP) which can be spent in any of the following areas: 

    Attributes (Strength, Dexterity, Spirit, Intelligence)
    Defensive (Increase chance to dodge etc)
    Magic
    Slayer

•  +1 attribute takes all 10 TP. Many of the talents have prerequisites like the skills in Diablo 2

•  Every time you use Talent points to raise a skill during levels 1-10 it will add +1..10-20 +2...20-30 +3

•  Talent points:  Paladin can put points into defense, regeneration, holy magic, undead slayer, beast slayer, strength, hit points, agility, intellect, spirit and more

Monsters

•  There are no undefeatable creeps. 

•  Dreadlords will feature in the game as one of the more powerful monsters along with demons.

•  Gates to the Undercity are guarded by these 2 huge abominations.

Mounts

•  You can attack on mounts. Blizzard have said on numerous occasions that this would not be the case and that it was undecided if mounts could be equipped with armour. That seems probable anyway, especially if they can be injured in combat but it's a welcome piece of news that mounted combat is now in.  There will of course be balance issues as far as PvP is concerned.  A human mounted on a horse verses a dwarf on a battle ram or even the teeny tiny gnomes on whatever they end up on? The Tauren has no mount and they're easily the tallest character. It also as the potential to look a tad comical. 

•  You can't use a mount until level 30 (another report came in specifying level 40.  This is probably down to the two different Blizzard representatives knowing two different 'facts'. Unfortunately this tends to happen at trade shows) .   A level prerequisite has always been in the game but this is the first definite level we've been given.

PvP

•  Horde Guilds can war Horde Guilds, and Alliance Guilds can do the same.

•  There will be PvP servers.

•  Battle games such as "Capture the Flag" will be available. Guild wars can be fought in Arenas, and people can bet.

•  Siege weapons for Player Verses Player are being discussed.

•  When you duel, a crystal shows up in the center signifying the centre of the dueling area. You can duel anywhere. If you leave the area for too long you forfeit the duel. You do not die when you finish dueling (duels seem to stop when the someone gets to 1hp). However you still need to heal yourself etc after the duel is done.

Items

•   There's no Teleport spells in game for player characters. 

•   Vendors are organized. "Mace Vendor" "Sword Vendor" "Helmet Vendor" etc. (They have human names.)

•  There are special unique weapons that drop from a specific race of creeps, but are EXTREMELY rare. If you kill 10,000 wolves, 1 special weapon with stats with the characteristic of a wolf will drop.. There are no server-special weapons. Anything can be found again by another player.

•  You can build exploding sheep with  the engineering Trade Skill.

General

•  When you step into a campfire, the fire engulfes you and embers go flying everywhere, damaging you quite quickly.

•  Guild houses are not implemented in yet. It might not make final release.

•  Mini-Games are still being discussed. Not implemented yet.

•  You can go to a racetrack and bet to win money. NPCs race, you bet which one will win.

•  You can have an unlimited number of buffs, but the same versions of buffs do not stack. If you have +15 defense, and someone casts +20, you will forfeit the +15 defense buff for the +20.

•  Beverages may not be in the game. They haven't been implemented yet. But cooking still will.  Beverages were another way to replenish mana when at rest.

•  Cows are in the game

•  Max level in final game will probably be around 60 although another reports has stated 70 based on what Blizzard stated at the show.

•  Max level for players in alpha is 25

•  Regions have "dynamic respawn" so the faster you kill monsters the faster they start respawning

•  Heroes still being worked on and are not finalized.

•  Invisibility spells reduce agro range of mobs.

•  20 seconds or 30 seconds for underwater breathing

•  There's a map also (not t he top right map you see in screenshots)  with all the zones shown Geographically separated by different colors.

•  Game build at Gen Con is Alpha version 5.3

•  Gen Con demo machines had 256 MB of ram

•  Higher level dungeons are not yet in the game.

Previously known information (but it's good to have it reconfirmed at this stage)

You can jump from the highest point in the world, and land onto the lowest point without any damage being done to yourself.

There are no underwater dungeons that only the Undead can reach. The Undead can breath normally underwater but it is a conveniance thing.

Hitpoint regeneration stops during Combat

Not all classes have mana. Warriors have "Rage", Hunters have "Focus", Rogues have "Energy". Each of these can be used up for special attacks. Rage is gained by getting hit, or hitting. It vanishes slowly if your not doing anything. Focus is getting by sitting still, if you move - you lose focus. I'm not sure how you gain Energy, I think it works like mana.

Torches are in the game, your character can carry a torch to light areas.

Duel wielders may find it much more difficult to defeat someone with high armor, due to the 1h weapons lower damage. 2h weapons are good against high armor, but 2h weapon users find it difficult to beat rogues - with low hp and high damage / evade.

Defense makes you harder to hit, Armor reduces damage done.

"Rituals" that require up to 20 people to do are being discussed. Not a sure-thing though. Rituals have to have specific classes and races in order to work.

Race Cities stay true to their race's characteristics. If you're a night elf, you may have to go to a Dwarven city to learn blacksmithing.

Shooting a ranged weapon works similarly to casting a spell, it has a "Shooting" bar at the bottem.

Hunters can tame beasts. You can't tame dragons :(

Undead has a racial ability that can breathe underwater normally.

Battle Ram mounts

Shamans are not tanks. Shamans use TOTEMS. You cast the sight totem and its placed on the ground. The shaman can run over the hill and still see EVERYTHING in the radius of the sight totem They also have a serpent totem (looks like a snake, which attacks), healing totems and many others.

Members of the alliances cannot talk or group with members of the horde

Character customisation, you can customize face, hair, skin color and facial hair.

There's is no PvP mode outside of consented dueling

Rogue - Finishing moves like "kidney shot", "cheap shot"

Rogues CAN DUEL WIELD.

Rogues can make poison. And you can add this to weapons

Night elves get Shadowmeld and nature resistance as a racial trait. . 

Undead get immunity to charm and fear spells as a racial trait. .

Loading times between transitions were fast, less than 5. This would include transitions such as going into an instance dungeon and porting across continents.

Gnomes are about half Dwarf height in-game

Currently there are 8 character slots so you can have a character from each race.







Date : 14 November 2002

Why choose Wow?

The big question on everyone's mind is why choose World of Warcraft over the many MMORPG titles that are still to hit the market? First we need to take a brief look at some of the more eagerly anticipated MMORPG titles to put things in perspective.

StarWars Galaxies – Due December 2002

SWG is being touted as the next big thing and the obvious pull is the game universe itself. It's been every gamer’s dream to play their favourite characters/race from the StarWars universe and the game world itself is rich and vibrant with a long history which dates back through the movies and many books that have been written since. This has to be the top contender for the most popular competitive up and coming MMORPG with 8 playable races at your disposal and a large variety of character skills.

Everquest 2 – 4th Quarter 2003

This is definitely up there with SWG due the shear amount of gamers that have glued themselves into Everquest, or EverCrack if you prefer, over the past four years.

With EQ2 now on the horizon the inquisitive nature of EQ players will surely pull them back into the world they have left to move onto something else. The game is once again set in a future Norath so many locations will be familiar to players of the first games.

At the recent EQ Fan Faire event we talked to a few players who were not sure if they would play EQ2 because it would mean having to start new characters again, a common problem for sequels.

After taking a look at the game at a recent press event I’ll admit I was a little disappointed in the game’s visuals. The gameplay demo was pretty jerky and I certainly would not have shown this to the press.

Asheron’s call 2 – Due December 2002

Yet another sequel but perhaps without the same pulling power of EQ2. Again this is a game that players of the original Asheron’s Call will be checking out and it does look visually very stunning, expanding on an already popular game concept and world which was first unveiled back in 1999. The game is set 500 years after the original title and features three playable races skilled in either melee, magic or ranged combat.

Earth & Beyond – Released October 2002

This game has already been released but with a storyline that's set to run for 5 years, it will overlap with the release of WoW. Earth & Beyond is the first persistent world space MMORPG so it has an edge over the other titles if space exploration and trading is your cup of tea. The game is also very well put together and ideal for newcomers to the MMORPG genre. Perhaps this is something players new to the genre should try before WoW to give them a taste of an MMORPG.

Dark Age of Camelot: Shrouded Isles – Released November 2002

You can't deny the popularity of DAoC, it has a massive user base and with this new expansion, Shrouded Isles, it will have players of the original coming back in their droves, but how long the expansion can keep people hooked remains to be seen.

The game expands on the original with new character classes, new races, and three new continents to explore. As well as new quests, weapons armour etc the game also features a new graphic engine that will help entice old and new players.

And so to WoW...

So where does that leave Blizzard and World of Warcraft and what edge will WoW have over the other titles? The main factor with World of Warcraft is the game's story, history and background. With the Warcraft universe having evolved over the past eight years, the game's history is deep. This is a sound foundation for any MMORPG and will mean a great deal of players will be starting in an already familiar environment.

While this is Blizzard's first foray into the MMORPG market they do have a long history in online gaming. Battle.net has proved to be a puller with Blizzard fans and a definite selling point for all their titles and it’s one reason why we always see the Battle.Net logo on the game boxes we buy. That's not to say everything has been rosy, gamers may be concerned that Blizzard will be an easy target for hackers and exploiters, as we have seen with Diablo II and more recently Warcraft III. Having said that, Blizzard have learnt so much over the years that by the time the game is released we are confident that measures to prevent similar events happening in WoW will be in place. Of course Blizzard will have a dedicated support team that will be on hand to make sure everything is running smoothly (as all the above MMORPGs do and will), that’s where your monthly subscription goes, on keeping the nasty people out and providing you with new game content.

Blizzard have also learnt from Diablo II that gamers appreciate fast and uncomplicated gameplay. The development team on WoW are keen to stress that the game will be easily accessible to all with a simple polished interface and combat that will be highly intuitive. From what we‘ve seen of the game at past trade shows they are definitely on track to achieving this goal. There is nothing worse than playing a game that just bogs you down and overcomplicates the gameplay. They are endeavouring to market the game to experienced gamers as well as those who have never played an MMO or indeed perhaps any game.

As far as price is concerned WoW is unlikely to have an edge, most MMORPG titles come in about the same per month, an average of around $10. Does that really matter at the end of the day? You are after all buying into the game concept, and with prices all about the same, monthly fees will probably not feature much in deciding which MMORPG gamers will buy.

Blizzard do have an edge here with so many top MMORPG titles already going into sequels/add-ons. WoW is fresh and new (or will be when it’s released), which is something that's bound to be on the mind of gamers looking for an MMORPG to sink their teeth into.

‘Content is King’ is a phrase you always hear. We all know Blizzard can churn out interesting storylines and this is another factor that should be considered. An MMORPG has to make you feel like you are living the game and have a purpose in the world. With Blizzard’s storytelling skills I think we all know that quests and world events are more than likely to have us all hankering for more. Besides, they have to be, there is no real end to the game so keeping the WoW universe exciting and fresh is going to be of the utmost importance to the content team at Blizzard, if they are to keep the monthly subscriptions rolling in.

Finally there's the ‘Blizzard Factor’TM. Never underestimate the Blizzard Factor, this is what pulls Blizzard fans back to their games time and time again. Blizzard are after all perfectionists. You may remember Warcraft Adventures, the now canned adventure title. We actually saw this in action and were really very impressed with the game concept and visuals. Alas the game was not to be, the plug was pulled and the game shelved simply because they felt it would not realise their high standards. To go so far with development of a game and then decide to halt development shows they are willing to take drastic action if need be. It's on this premise that fans following WoW feel confident that Blizzard will deliver a top-notch MMORPG.

Right now we’re all playing the waiting game. Blizzard are keeping cool and staying tight lipped about the game’s development, and quite rightly so. With so many MMORPG titles about to be released, or currently in the works, things need to be kept under wraps, after all, don’t we all want WoW to have the edge and be more exciting than other MMORPGs? The waiting game has begun so let’s revel in the information have recently started to allow to trickle through to their eager fanbase.






o you’re hearing all about this E3 thing and you’ve no idea what it’s all about. Let us enlighten you and try and explain. Each year developers and publishers from all over the world hop in their planes trains and automobiles and head for sunny LA. E3 is held annually, usually some time in the middle of May and for some it’s a time of dread and for others, mainly you the reader, a time of excitement.

At the LA exhibition centre in the heart of downtown LA, the gaming industry converge for 3 days of fun and frolics as the latest titles are put on show. E3 is a time to rejoice for followers of any game, whether it’s console, PC, or even mobile gaming. E3 is the place where all the current developments are put on show for the press, and ultimately the public, for the first time. Publishers are wanting to show the world what they have on their books for the next 12 months and beyond, and developers stand by demoing their products to retailers and the media, it’s a serious business you know. For the publisher and developer it’s 3 days of what they might describe as unabridged madness. Imagine 100’s of thousands of show-goers wandering around a huge exhibition complex for 3 days fighting for the best positions at demos and looking for the next hot thing and any low-key gems hidden on the outskirts. That’s E3.

Attention Grabbing
Stage Props

Now each year Blizzard send the troops into the fray to demo their up and coming products. Over the years we've managed to see and play games such as Diablo II, Warcraft III and World of Warcraft prior to release. The Blizzard team man their usually highly impressive stand from 10-AM – 6PM every day answering questions from the enthusiastic show goers. It sounds like a doddle but imagine answering the same questions over and over again and firing up the same demo 100’s of times for 3 days. Each year the Blizzard crew look absolutely shattered by the end of the day, but despite the slog, they always manage to pull through and put on a great show by dedicating a lot of time to each of their demos. They’re big fans of the own games.

Church of Blizzard

The E3 expo itself is absolutely mental, it’s like being in a massive football crowd with people shouting, music blaring and lights flashing for a full 3 days, it’s sensory overload to the extreme. It’s not all bad though , E3 is a chance to celebrate everything that is good about gaming and the industry in which we work. Viewing the latest game innovations and eyeing up the latest technology is the major perk of attending E3, and as a Blizzard fan, it also gives us the chance to go hands-on with the next Blizzard titles which are more often than not the stars of E3.

This year Blizzard have 3 titles to show the crowds, Warcraft III: Frozen Throne single player missions, their console only action title StarCraft Ghost [with Nihilistic] and of course World of Warcraft. Last year we had the chance to checkout WoW for the second time after it was announced at ECTS in London a year and half ago. Eight months had passed between seeing the game at ECTS and E3 last year, and the changes to the game were quite notable. With Blizzard missing ECTS in London last year, it’s now been a full year since we last saw the game in motion, so E3 this year will be a real eye opener for the crew at WorldOfWar.net . Last year we had the pleasure of viewing the Dwarves for the first time but whether it will be another race announcement is probably unlikely at this stage. One aspect of the game we’ll be wanting to iron out are the skills, assuming any information is available of course.

With a flurry of previews based on Bill Roper’s recent European tour, we may already know most things about the game Blizzard are willing to go public with, and there may not be anything too dramatic revealed as far as gameplay is concerned. The recent influx of exclusive magazine coverage has already revealed a lot, the Night Elves as the 5th race ,the Warlock and the Druid and Hunter character classes. Scorch summed things up nicely in his recent Random Ravings comic.

WorldOfWar.Net will be crossing the Atlantic a few days prior to the show to get ourselves settled in and ready for the frenzy of E3 on the 13th. We’re booked to see Blizzard and you can rest assured we’ll be poking and probing the development team as far as we can to find out the juicy info. We’ll also swing by our chat room throughout the show, as we usually do, to gather your follow up questions for the development team.

Last year's coverage can be found here and for more photos of Blizzard's and other stands visit loadedinc.com and their overall coverage for E3 2003 is already live here!









  Spell/Abilities

Our first appointment at this year's E3 was with World of Warcraft Producer Shane Dahiri who was to take us on a tour of the E3 game build and we were in for a treat as the game has really moved on since we saw it at E3 2003.

Our demo kicked off in the Wetlands, a swampy area just outside the Dwarven lands, you may remember it from the recent gameplay movie. After a quick wander around Shane jumped our character to a sunken ship just off the coast of the Wetland area. The character swam through a hole in the side of the wreck and then climbed aboard the vessel. After a quick demo of the swimming once again Shane explained more about the game's PvP which has been a hot topic of discussion.

As we already know, PvP is consensual and about 90% of World of Warcraft's zones will not be PvP enabled. The 10% that will be PvP will have PvP elements such as arenas or even battlefields where players will fight for control of towers or other such buildings. Perhaps this can be perceived as a siege type gameplay which would be ideal for group play.

The arena will be the areas that attract the real crowds and Blizzard will allow players to purchase tickets to watch these spectacles. The arena will also be geared towards PvP guild wars where guilds will purchase special 'guild war' tickets and invite other clans to come fight in the arena. These events will be organised via a broadcast system in the game and other players in the world will be able to purchase tickets for game currency to watch these epic battles. No ticket no spectating. Guild and single PvP battles won't be the only features available. You will be able to purchase tickets to watch dragon fights for example and others players can buy tickets to join in dragon fights already planned.  While WoW may be criticised for not having a more open ended PvP system, the development team are doing their best to make sure that those who want an enthralling PvP experience will be more than satisfied with what's in store.

Environments

We've seen many of the game's environments since the game was announced and we were shown what Blizzard are calling 'micro-dungeons' which in this case was an Ogre Mound.  While the name implies small, it was stressed that these areas are in fact reasonably large and players will be able to spend a good couple of hours in here, alone, fighting. Despite what you may first think, these micro-dungeons are not instanced and it's here you will be able to fight creatures and gain some valuable XP with other players in the dungeon doing the same. In World of Warcraft there will be around 100 of these area types and they will include caves, crypts, keeps and sunken ships.

The seamless transition between areas is something Blizzard have always been proud of, ever since the game was first revealed at ECTS in London. Despite this rather impressive feature, there will be areas where the game's design dictates the need for some load screens. An example of this will be areas that are instanced for your character and your party members.

Shane wanted to show us more of the varied environments and so we jumped over to the Human city of Stormwind which was first shown in the March gameplay movie. We entered the city through the large gates and made our way towards the large statues flanking the bridge over the Valley of the Heroes. These statues are heroes from the previous Warcraft: Beyond the Dark Portal game, heroes that went through the Dark Portal never to return. To help new players understand the game's lore, you can click a brass plaque on the statues' plinth to display the history of that particular hero.

As we made our way into the town it was a little unpopulated but when the servers are supporting the 3 - 4k players that is planned, areas such as Stormwind will be buzzing  with players. There's no doubt that this city looks impressive but Blizzard want these city areas to be more than just places to sell, train or trade, they have built areas within the city walls to adventure such as crypts, jails and sewers.  You could easily spend entire gaming sessions just in your native city.

The level of detail is highly impressive and even more so when we were shown the complex canal system weaving its way through Stormwind. These canals are not just aesthetic, they also serve as a transport route to get round the city a lot quicker by taking a gondola taxi for a small fare. These were unfortunately not operational in the E3 demo.

Stormwind is a complex and sprawling city which is split into areas for various player types or factions. These districts are split into the holy district for holy folk for example or the warrior district for the more burly types. Players will be able to visit these districts and receive quests for specific faction types. These special districts are identified by either banners on the walls of buildings or more subtly the colour of the roofs. In Stormwind, for example, all buildings in the Warrior district are indicated by red roofs and the holy district is indicated by blue.

Blizzard are also expecting an influx of WoW weddings as players will be able to hire the Cathedral of Light in the centre of Stormwind for special events. The happy couple will be able to send out wedding invitations, buy flowers, and favours to issue to guests and even adorn the Cathedral with appropriate decor. 

Transportation

Ship Ahoy!

An essential part of any MMORPG and Blizzard has finally cleared up a few points that were niggling at the back of our minds. As we already know, players will have access to mounts and boats to ferry them between ports. Blizzard are well aware that moving from place to place on slower modes of transport ana be rather dull so there will be gambling on ships and even quests. The transportation ship may come under attack in transit for example.

Gryphons!

The newest and most exciting mode of transport are the Gryphons. Throughout the World of Warcraft players will come across Gryphon Masters and it's these NPC characters who'll help you move from region to region as quickly as possible. When you find a station to hire a Gryphon you can hire a ride and move from zone to zone. What the cost of this will be has not yet been decided. Shane explained that taking a Gryphon would cut down a 40 minute walk down to a 3 minute ride. To demonstrate this we hopped on a Gryphon and traveled between Stormwind Keep to Iron Forge and we were there in a flash. The game would be pretty dull if all the Gryphon Masters were easy to find so you may have to complete a quest to open up a route or search long and hard to find some of the more obscure stations.  

So how does it look? Well it's breathtaking and not only are the Gryphon's a practical way of getting around they are also a great way to view the stunning landscapes of World of Warcraft. You can see everything below you, ambient life forms, houses, monsters, even other players and they can look up and see you fly overhead too. The sound effects change as you move over the different zones, from birdsong in Elwynn to volcanic activity over the Burning Steppes. You are safe though should you pass over a battle, you can't attack and be attacked while on a Gryphon or Zeppelin for that matter.

So with Gryphons sorted out, what about mounts? Shane and the rest of the team love the idea of mounts but as he pointed out there will be levels required in order to use them. Shane commented: 'If you give mounts at a certain low level then everyone will have them'. There's been much discussion about fighting on mounts and that's still a hot topic of debate at Blizzard and again Shane stressed if you can fight on them, everyone will have a mount and everyone will fight on one. So for now Mounts are a mode of transportation and a nice pose.

To gain a mount you need to learn the horseback riding skill or the wolf riding skill or  maybe even complete a quest. There are different types of mounts and we were shown the White Stallion and Palomino horses which looked fantastic.  There are no restrictions on types of mounts you can ride, it's not race dependent but for example a human who wants to ride a wolf will have to gain that ability by building factions with the Orcs and even complete a quest with them to learn the ability to ride wolves. You'll be held in high regard for sure if you're seen to be gadding about on a Wolf as a human character.

With mounts not being involved in combat currently, you can't buy armour for them.  How mounts could be customised is still being discussed. Shane added "We want to do as much as we can it's just a matter of production time, we just have so much to put in the game".

The Mountains

We took one of our trusty Gryphons to the infamous Black Rock Mountain to see an example of a 'real dungeon' where instances may be created. Blackrock was built by the dwarves, it was just a mountain and some cataclysmic event wiped out a good portion of the Dwarven race and turned the mountain into a volcano. The Dwarves were then displaced to the Iron Forge Mountains. Orcs ended up making it their base of operations in Warcraft I and II but the humans pushed them out and the mountain lay empty for a long period of time. During this time other dark forces took up residence such as dragons and fire elementals.

The Mountain is split into two sections, the upper mountain and lower mountain. The upper part of the mountain is populated by a female dragon and the lower, the Lord of the Fire Elementals. It's a nasty place and the Blackrock Spire separates the Dwarven and Human areas of the game, there's actually a path that goes straight through so if you're a big jessy you can avoid the upper and lower mountain areas.

The New Classes

Learn more about the Warlock in the character sectionThe most recent class addition is the Warlock, summoner of demonic Magic. The Warlock class in WoW can only be played by either Orcs of Humans. The Warlock will have access to all sorts of skills including the ability to summon Infernals, Fel hunters (melee support), imp (will attack at range, cast spells) and void walkers (does large amounts of damage but loses health slowly and he also casts buffs on you. Nice Walker). Also, since they made pacts with the demons they can also draw energies from other players so they can basically steal health and mana.

We were introduced to the Warlocks 'pets' in the demonstration and their pet interface is pretty easy to use. Each pet can be assigned a command, simply click on the pet avatar in the top left of the screen and issue commands such as  passive, defensive, wait, follow, attack and dismiss. These can of course be hot-key activated if you so wish. 

Pets are ideal for the Warlock because as your pet Imp attacks a target, your Corruption and Immolation slowly sap at the target's health and the burn them to boot. All this time your Imp is working as a distraction while you stand back and weave your magic or use a spell such as Death Coil to instantly steal health and boost your own. The Warlock class will not be able to  melee on his own without a pet or skills sapping the target. Should you try it it's more than likely you'll end up dead. Other Warlock spells we were shown included Sleep which puts a target to sleep until it is attacked when it'll awaken and begin to attack. Soul Tap which takes a little bit of your life and gives it to your pet. Shane mentioned that Soul Tap can be dangerous because if you're health is low you could end up killing yourself as you transfer your last dribble of health over to your pet.  He actually did this himself and we're sure it was his grand plan to show us how not to use Soul Tap.

Learn more about the Hunter in the character sectionHunters have also been confirmed and this class is available to any race. The great advantage to hunters is their pet. They don't get a pet right off the bat, they have to tame them. They have an ability called 'Beast Tracking' and just as with the Herbalism skill, 'Find Herb', the Hunter will slow right down, as if tracking, and nearby beasts will show up on the minimap. Beasts would include the likes of big cats, spiders, bears, wolves or a rafter or a bird. You can name your pet, just the once for each new pet.

The level of beast the hunter can tame is determined by his own level, however once tamed, the pet will level up along with the hunter, but only up to 90% of his own level. They will get the same amount of experience points as the hunter (not leaching) and will come with an ability or skill which will also improve as the pet levels up. There will be no indication of what the skill is before taming. A spider may come with Web which ensnares their target while another may come with poison or a sonic attack - it's the luck of the draw. You can only have one pet at a time but you can always 'abandon' it (not dismiss that is temporary) and tame another beast but of course if you've invested time leveling your pet it's a tough decision to snuff it out. It could be hard to resist as you progress through the game and tougher beasts start to appear, such as rafters, the like of which you'll not see until level 40 by which time you're bound to have a reasonably high pet that you could even have some sentimental attachment to. That's the thing with pets. So what happens if the pet dies? If the pet dies the hunter can summon it again but only after a five minute cool down. The Hunter demo mainly concentrated on the Pets but as far as skills go we did see a couple of melee abilities which included Swiss Strike which does a double attack and Hunter Strike which does +8 extra damage.

Learn more about the Druid in the character sectionUnlike the Hunters who are available to any race, the Druid class is only available to the Night Elves and Tauren. Druids can shapeshift into animal forms such as bears and when they do they gain certain abilities such as Swipe (extra damage), Maul (extra damage and stun) and Beast Rage. The Druids' spells can not be used when shifted however, that includes healing spells. eeek! Druids can also shift into the form of big cats (the druids stamina will increase in this form) or a bird, currently a Carrion Bird but as it seems too scavenger-like and not at all appropriate for Night Elves will be changed to Eagle form by Blizzard. In this form you will be susceptible to ranged attacks and you will not be able to fly wherever you please as there would be frame rate issues and you'd probably get to places you shouldn't be, such as stuck up a mountain. They can also shift into what's being called 'scout' form, this allows Druids to change into some ambient life form such as a rabbit, squirrel or rat, very handy for spying. Your name will appear as rabbit and you will have the same yellow highlight (non-threatening/neutral) as other rabbits, instead of a red highlight (enemy).

Game Dynamics

We thought we'd clear up a  few points on subjects such as death and see if there has been any recent changes. When you die a message appears 'release your spirit' which will sit there for five minutes giving time for someone to resurrect you on the spot. If you are not resurrected by that time you will reappear at your last saved bind stone. You can elect to not wait and return immediately however. Right clicking on the bind stone will bind you to that location. On death your stats are decreased for a period time (five minutes). No items fall off you when you die.  Not too tough a penalty but enough to make you not want to make a a habit out of it.

To party, right click on the portrait of the player you want to party with, and from the options that appear select 'invite'. If the other play joins his portrait will sit on the left of the screen below your own with health and mana displays also. You can cast buffs on your party members by casting a spell and clicking on the party member's portrait or on the player themselves. You can also select the player first then cast the spell on them.

As far as XP and Loot goes, there are different looting options which are set by the party leader (the player who invited other players to their group). Modes in the current build include Round Robin looting which means party members loot in turns, you'll know when it's your turn as you'll see small glowing sparkles floating above the corpse, if there are none there you will not be able to take the loot no matter how hard you try. 'Free For all' looting and 'leader only' looting which is good for guild raiding where you may want only the leader to pick up the loot to distribute amongst members afterwards. To indicate who's in control, a small crown sits on the portrait of the party leader.

Trade Skills

Learn more about Trade Skills in the character sectionTo clear up any confusion on Trade skills, Shane confirmed that they are split into 3 types, Gathering, construction and horseback riding. Some trade skills you can do when you're out in the field, like Alchemy, but there are others that you have to visit somewhere to perform, such as an anvil, or to a fire pit for cooking. The Trade skill interface is also the same between each of the different trade skills.

Herbalism (gathering skill)

The hippy skill of WoW, a skill where the character will wander the land pilfering the landscape for all things wild to manufacture his potions. We were taken on a rambling spree with one of Shane's Herbalist characters and tracked down the herb Stranglekelp (only found on the shore) a plant which is fairly plentiful. Once a character has picked the herb the bush will disappear. The bushes will  then respawn but never in the same place so you won't be able to camp. Another herb Silver Root you will only find in Elven forests.

With Herbalism you have the ability to 'Find Herbs'. A lot of trading skills come with other supportive skills, such as Mining will come with 'Find Ore'. When you use these skills your character will slow down to increase his chance of locating the particular reagent which will show up on the mini map. Slowing down is also a balance feature, otherwise characters would just activate their Find Herb/Ore skill constantly.

Alchemy

To become the ultimate Alchemist you will need to buy recipes from a trainer, find recipes from quests, killing monsters or from another player. Grey recipes are trivial, green ones are average, yellow ones are above average and orange ones are the hardest. Just because the recipe is hard it doesn't mean you are going to fail, it simply means that the chance of getting your skill to increase when creating is more difficult. Your skill will only increase if you work on green, yellow or orange recipes. The most difficult of recipes will need to be followed in an Alchemist's Lab in order to work.

If you work on any of the trivial recipes you won't go up in skill at all. This way the player won't have to endure endless attempts at creating a potion before success, they will always create the potion but won't always gain points in the skill.

The Trade skill interface will show the reagents you need for a recipe and how many you have, and next to the recipe name it will show you how many you are able to make from your current supplies. Simply click 'create' and it will automatically create and move it to your backpack. If you have one of the same item already there it will stack the new item along with it.

As your Alchemy skill increases, the recipes will open up at an Alchemist Trainer. If you go back to a town there's more than likely an Alchemist Trainer there who will teach you recipes in return for money. Some potions (such as the Troll Blood Potion) are from recipes awarded after completing a quest, simply right clicking on the recipe scroll to learn and add it to your recipe book. If you've already learned that recipe you can always trade the scroll to another player who hasn't but you can't give your recipes to someone else once it's in your recipe book.

First Aid

This is a trade skill you can use anywhere, you don't have to be in a location, you only have to find the components such as scraps of wool or linen. For example, when you click on the Physician ability that comes with First Aid, it shows how to make heavy linen bandages.  You need 2 scraps of linen as it happens. Once the bandages are made you can use them with your First Aid skill on your own character or someone else. You can only use First Aid once on each individual in a single combat situation.

There's multiple ways to heal in the game. You can rest for a while, you can sit or sleep (which will recover your health a little quicker) and as we already know food will regenerate health even quicker which is well suited to battle situations. Potions can only be drank once in a single combat situation or within a certain period of time, you can't just guzzle a stack of them which avoids the potion fest that was Diablo. To sum up, you can heal from taking food, using bandages or potions. All of them are trade skills so not everyone will have them all. This means when partying you'll more than likely want a First Aid character in your party, a cook to cook during your down time and an Alchemist to supply your group with potions.

Language Skills

Every race starts with their native language. Orcs start with knowledge of Orcish, Human's with Common. If you're an Orc and type 'hello', for example, it would appear as Orchish to other races unless they have learnt Orcish as a language skill. This will be the case with literature (books, tomes, scrolls) also. If an Orc found a recipe in the Human areas he may not be able to read it, unless he had learned Common. This is a really fun feature and we hope this idea stays in the game come release.

Communication is an important part of any MMO and emotes are now obligatory.  We have a complete list of what has been added so far so you can expect to see the following.

    wave, bow, cheer, kiss, cry, dance, shy, point, flex, shout, beg, chicken, kneel, rude, stand, sit, laugh, sleep, applaud, roar.

We're told there will probably be more.

Quests

When you walk into a town for the first time you don't have to go up to each individual NPC to see if they have a quest for you. Those with quests will either have a yellow exclamation mark above their head meaning they have a level-appropriate quest for you or a blue mark indicating they have a quest but you're not quite high enough level to be given it so you should remember to revisit them in about another 5 or 10 character levels.

Clicking on one will activate the quest window with full description and brief description and the reward for the completing the quest. There will be quests that list a selection of reward items so you can pick and choose which you prefer. Once you've accepted the quest it is logged in your Quest Interface along with any other outstanding quests. Clicking on the title of a quest in your list will bring up the full details and the item you have chosen to be rewarded with should your complete the quest. Some quests are single step affairs others will require you to complete a number of objectives to fully complete. You can also sort quests in the Quest Interface, putting them in the order you wish to complete them. As well as the descriptions to help you complete the quest there will sometimes be visual markers on the minimap but Blizzard want you to explore the world so the markers won't be there all the time or you'll just move from marker to marker and complete the quest without thinking about the challenge or exploring the world. 

If you get a quest at an early level, say 10, and you don't complete it until much later, say level 20, you will get the experience points of a level 10 character. The quests will not disappear (from your quest interface if you've accepted or the quest giver although their exclamation mark will eventually disappear) if you don't do them so there will be no chance of you losing out on that vital quest simply because you forgot to complete the quest 15 levels before, you just won't get many experience points for it but that won't matter much as it's the item you're after in those situations.

Misc. Questions

WorldofWar.Net: Will any race/class have an advantage/disadvantage in swimming?

Shane: No

WorldofWar.Net: What are the attributes?

Shane: 

Strength - Improves weapon damage and slight improvement to blocking and critical damage.
Agility - Improves chances to dodge and proc (changes that a weapons imbued ability such as poison will successfully execute)
Stamina - Improves hit points
Intellect - Increases spell damage and healing (how much you heal when you perform a healing spell)
Spirit - Increases mana regeneration

The base levels of these statistics are different between all classes but not genders and they are increased with skill points you choose to assign when leveling up. How many points awarded with each level-up has yet to be set. Items will also increase these attributes. Resistances consist of Holy, Fire, Nature, Frost, Shadow.

WorldofWar.Net: Can you name mounts?

Shane: Yes and pets.

WorldofWar.Net: Can you buy stables for mounts?

Shane: No. Right now mounts are summonable, you turn them 'on' and 'off' by right clicking on it.

WorldofWar.Net: Will kingdoms have a king/queen and if so will it be an NPC, a player or a GM?

Shane: Yes and NPC. King and Queen is very different between races.

WorldofWar.Net: Any seasonal changes?

Shane: Probably not but there will be weather changes and it hasn't been decided what effects weather will have on gameplay.

WorldofWar.Net: Will NPCs be hostile to characters of a different race?

Shane: Yes. If you're a Tauren and you try to get into Stormwind the guards at the gate will attack you, even if you're with Human party members. There may be other ways to get in such as an invisible Mage or a Druid shifted into a scout form. Perhaps if you prove your faction with them, they may let you in eventually. To prove your faction with them you can complete some of the neutral quests that are dotted around the world, such as those issued by the Human Hunters' Lodge, if you did some quests for them as an Orc for example it would probably help your human faction overall which will make Human NPCs more friendly towards you. There is a 'Reputation' tab which will display details on your factions but it's not implemented.

WorldofWar.Net: Any more on Guild Halls?

Shane: Haven't announced it and it's still being looked into. They would like to have them, either individual houses and guild houses are still not set in stone.

This concludes day 1 at E3. We'll be heading back tomorrow to see what else we can extract from the developers. Please post your comments in our forum and pose any further questions you may have for the development team.




An Analysis of Warcraft, The Roleplaying Game

Date : 6 August 2003

Sword and Sorcery has recently released a D20 roleplaying product called Warcraft, The Roleplaying Game (Copyright 2003, Blizzard Enterainment) Since the product is copyrighted by Blizzard, officially licensed by Blizzard, gives author credit to one of the Warcraft Novelists (Jeff Grubb), and a Creative and Rules Design credit to Chris Metzen and Bob Fitch, we thought we might want to take a look at this sourcebook for any hints it might give us about what to expect from the World of Warcraft.


Archer from Warcraft II
This hardcover book is 244 pages long and is divided into six main sections. The first section, "A World at War" details the history of the world of Azeroth. It runs the history from the advent of the Kaldorei through the events at the end of the Orc Campaign of the Frozen Throne. The events detailed in the other Frozen Throne campaigns are not covered in this section or book. The history is very much along the official lines. Although there are a few spots that strike a dedicated reader.

One is that while Illidan collected seven vials of the well of eternity, only two of them have been accounted for. One was used to start the new well of eternity in Kalimdor, the second to create a minor, less powerful version of the same well at Sunwell in Quel'Thalas.

Secondly, the details of History between the exile of the high borne until the modern age of the Orc invasions is better detailed here. There is not much in the way of stunning revelations, just a more detailed accounting of what allies were made and how magic came to be used by the human nations of Azeroth.


Ner'Zhul in Daernor
There is one interesting tidbit in the history that is later contradicted in the same book. "Khadgar's forces fled back to Azeroth and destroyed the Dark Portal as Ner'zhul led his orcs through the second Portal." This is most likely a mistake. Blizzard's version of the history to date has been that Khadgar and his forces needed to make the sacrifice of staying on Draenor and closing the portal from there to protect Azeroth from the destruction of Draenor.

The second section deals primarily with the different races and classes that are available in this game's mechanics. As the game is built on an entirely different engine, it's probably best not to draw out too many details from this section as applicable to the World of Warcraft game. The concepts are definitely fair game however.

In the roleplaying game, both sexes of the Night Elves receive a bonus to hiding at night. It is not a complete invisibility as it is in Warcraft III, nor is it restricted to just the females. This follows with what Blizzard has said concerning differences between the sexes in game. (There won't be any mechanic differences, just cosmetic ones.)

Dwarves have rediscovered their history and as a result have remastered a skill to turn their skins to stone, effectively increasing their armor for a short period of time every day. This is similar to the gargoyle's ability in Warcraft III.

High Elves are mentioned (again no mention of any of the frozen throne storylines except the Orc campaign) and have developed an addiction to magic now that the sunwell is gone. This ties in well with what we would expect from Blood Elves, although there has not been an indication that Blood Elves will be playable.


Night Elf Archer
There is no third race for the Horde. It stands, High Elf, Night Elf, Dwarf, and Human with an uneasy peace against the Tauren and Orc. Goblins are playable, they function as a mechanical, mercantile race. We also finally get some information on the long pondered island of Undermine.

"Though the trade princes all live in the goblin island city of Undermine far from Kalimdor, they each control their own private armies and trade fleets." The mystery of Undermine looks to be solved. It will be a goblin-controlled land.

There is a large section detailing the class selections for a roleplaying game in Azeroth. Unfortunately there is little crossover with the classes that we already know exist in World of Warcraft. For this reason, there is actually little that is gleamed about what could be expected for new classes. The few that have been announced for World of Warcraft are all prestige classes in the RPG. The Paladin Warrior, Elven Ranger, and Horde Assassin may be interesting as potential classes for World of Warcraft, but hindsight will make this all more clear when the remaining classes are revealed.

The third section of this sourcebook deals with Adventuring in Kalimdor. There are five affiliations that are listed. Alliance, Horde, Burning Legion, Scourge and Independent. Each have varying degrees of friendliness towards each other. Changing affiliations is not easy in this game, requiring an approval of the gamemaster before it can be accepted.

The faiths of the world of Azeroth are detailed. Holy Light, Shamanism, Mystery of the Makers, Burning Legion and The Scourge. The shadow council is also mentioned as an organization of people interested in the Burning Legion and actively working to return the Burning Legion to Azeroth in order to further their own personal power.


Human at the Ready
There are a variety of ways that the faiths and afflictions could cross over to World of Warcraft. Most interesting will be to see how they work out the alliance/horde relationship with the Holy Light & Shamanism/Burning Legion conflicts. In the sourcebook, both Tauren and Night Elves are violently opposed to those that seek the demons return. With the Warlock class capable for both Humans and Orcs, that should make for an interesting sheer on the typical you versus me of the alliance/horde conflict.

The firearm rules and mechanical constructions are also introduced. Firearms have a mechanical possibility of failure, as do the mechanical constructions. But the rules are included for creating a dwarven flying machine. It seems like this would not fit in with what we already know about the mechanics in World of Warcraft. We know that a druid shapeshifted to a flying form does not have free flight. It seems hard to believe that a flying machine would be in game for the same reasons that Blizzard is not planning on having free flight.

The fourth section covers the magical aspects of the RPG. An interesting sidebar; "Unlike in other fantasy milieus, magic in Warcraft is a dark and dangerous force. … Arcane magic's sinister nature is left as a theme for you and the GM to explore in your campaign…" This reinforcement of the theme about magical addiction may make an interesting quirk to spell caster characters in World of Warcraft?

There is also an interesting lore note on the demigod Cenarius. "His spirit lingers, but his physical self has been forever destroyed."

The fifth section concerns the continent of Kalimdor as it exists the year after the end of the events in Reign of Chaos and after the events of the Orc custom campaign. It begins by giving some insight into each race's culture and current disposition on the continent. Then it gets into some of the most detailed geography that we have seen from Blizzard.

Each area of the continent is described in detail, pointing out climate, areas of interest, and native species. Naga are mentioned frequently as a new hostile species driving out the player races of the alliance. As the section continues, there are a few sidebars to call out particularly interesting places on the Kalimdor continent.


Goblin Zeppelin in
Stranglethorn Jungle
Ratchet, City of the Trade Princes is a chaotic goblin city that has grown to be the largest port in Kalimdor. All races walk freely on the streets of Ratchet as long as they have money to spend. There are mentions of nearly every time of good and service being sold here, as well as a thriving gladiatorial combat arena.

There is also a sidebar dealing with the effects of heat on characters. We still don't really now what the effects of being underwater are in World of Warcraft, so heat, while interesting, may just be a product of the role playing world.

One of the regions that caught our eye was strictly for the description. "The tauren refuse to go near Brackenwall and blame disappearances on what they call 'the hungry mists'"

Theramore, Fortress of the Alliance also bears mention in a sidebar. The city is described as the last bastion of the Alliance on the continent of Kalimdor. There is some tension however, as humans overwhelmingly control the government. There is also interesting contradiction here as well. We have heard from the E3 interviews and confirmed by Rob Pardo that there will not be mixing of races within the different fractions. But in Theramore, Orcs are still welcome according to the sourcebook. While interesting, it is most likely just another difference between the two games.

Kalimdor is portrayed frequently as a land of ancient mysteries. Even the elder races of the continent Tauren and Night Elves seem to have little insight into some of the old places and areas. This rediscovery theme runs clearly through the dwarves as well, as they race to discover more of these titans that created them.

There is passing mention of the other areas of Azeroth, Lordaeron, Northrend, and Stormwind are mentioned passing more than in any detail. The areas are clearly set to be detailed later in the books that are still due out. Finally they also deal with three other areas of interest to a hard core Warcraft fan. The twisting nether, elemental plane and emerald dream are all sketched out in broad terms for this game.


Warcraft III Orc Box Art
The twisting nether is described as an area of chaos and dysfunction, where the normal rules of the universe may or may not apply. The elemental plane is where the Titans long ago banished the Elementals of Azeroth, and where they are quite comfortable in their new home. Finally the emerald dream is described, as a vision of what Azeroth would have been if the intelligent life of Azeroth had never arisen.

The final section is relevant only really to the GMs of the RPG. It talks about how to setup adventures for the player characters. Not much to gleam from here.

The book is also interspersed with short pieces of fiction, detailing life in Azeroth. Entertaining reads, but other than the disjointed speech of the goblin in a party forming tale, there is little but entertainment to be found in them. The book also contains a world map on the front and back cover of the entire world of Azeroth and some new and existing art from the Blizzard (Samwise's distinctive style is evident) and other artists.

Update 12:08am GMT 7 August 2003

We have found some additional quotes from the designers of this RPG that maybe give us some additional insight.

In response to a "What, no trolls?" question:

    As I mentioned before, more PC races will be available in the Alliance & Horde Comprendium
    -Mike Johnstone, Editor, Warcraft The Roleplaying Game

That's not as much of a tidbit as this is however.

    There is, indeed, a lot of ground to cover. We couldn't fit it all in the initial release, so we decided to split stuff into supplements. This includes, say, the Alliance & Horde Compendium (slated for release this December), with stuff like troll and pandaren PC races, and death knight, demon hunter and necromancer PrCs.

    I understand wanting all the aspects of Warcraft right up front -- we wanted to do that, too -- but we just couldn't put it all together in a single book in the time frame we had. We're confident that we'll give fans the full breadth of Warcraft through the supplements to come.

    And by "we," I mean the SSS design team working hand-in-hand with Blizzard. Some design compromises were made due to the nature of translating the setting from one platform (RTS) to another (RPG). FWIW, Blizzard is happy with the results and feels that the material we're putting together captures the core of what Warcraft is about. (As far as the art's concerned, the majority of it was created by Blizzard artists, either from their design archives or done expressly for the RPG.)
    -Andrew Bates, Sword & Sorcery Studios Managing Editor

Of course, how much of this will carry over is yet to be seen. Right now there are half-elves and half-orcs available as player races in the RPG as well. Still, it could be a foreshadowing of what is to come for the World of Warcraft.





Computer Gaming World has the latest exclusive interview with the Blizzard development team. After sending two editors to Blizzard for two days to do nothing but play, they have returned with a wealth of goodies.

There will be two factions, Horde and Alliance. The Horde side of the equation has two races joining the team, the Trolls and the Forsaken. The Burning Legion remains an overall threat to both factions. The alliance will be joined by the Gnomes, apparently fresh out of hiding.

New classes to bring us to a total of nine. Six existing, druid, hunter, shaman, mage, warrior, and warlock will see the addition of three more, Rogue, Priest, and Paladin. Finally hero classes will be available to the more dedicated gamers that achieve higher levels (currently set at 40th.)

The rogue class is designed to be able to deal large amounts of damage through the use of deception, poison and devastating attack moves. Poison can either be used to enhance direct damage or as a lingering effect that does damage over time.

The priest class is less like a conventional cleric class and more like a spell caster with influence over an opponent's thinking. They are described in the article as the best healer and buffer in the game. Some of their skills include being able to dominate or charm an opponent, confusion and fumble. Interesting, priests can walk the world of holy magic or shadow magic.

Finally Paladins are described. They are different from Warriors in that they can't deal the damage that a warrior can, but they are experts in the fields of defense. Add to that the abilities to imbue weapons, heal and generate aura type effects, they will be a sure fit for most alliance parties.

Finally the hero classes. The hero classes look to be similar to our article on legendary heroes. They are just being placed in the game builds now. Currently a player needs to be a 40th level character class to qualify for a hero class. Unlike our article, it appears that right now you will have to fit both the racial and professional profile to take on a hero class.

Hard Factions.

The factions in World of Warcraft are set. There is no changing factions, there is no mixed groups. It is still possible to get a racial mount of a different style. PvP will happen in dueling arenas as well as in battle zones through the world of Azeroth. The coolest part of the battle zones? Not only can you work with NPCs to conquer land, but you actually conquer land. You can help take over towns to sway to your alliance.

Quests and Uberdungeons

There are over one hundred micro dungeons scattered throughout the land. These dungeons have what is called mob-pluses. What they are is a mob that is designed to completely wipe out a party or individual that is not really careful and strategic. The dungeons promise to be more difficult and requiring focus to survive and thrive.

Additionally there are over twenty uber dungeons designed for allowing guild raids be challenging and rewarding. They are all instanced so as to avoid any problems with camping or kill stealing. What happens when a friend is late to the party? No problem! As long as you add them to our party, they can join your instance.

There are also quests that create new quests. The example the give is a series of quests for a hermit that turns out to create an abomination that attacks the local town. Once you've completed the quest, you can be called upon with the other players and NPC guards to take down this walking pile of decaying flesh.

The New Races

While the forsaken race has been ready for some time, the trolls and gnomes are very new and haven't been fully fleshed out yet. We can probably expect more details on these races in future Blizzard information releases.

Transportation

As popularly speculated, Wyverns get renamed Wind Runners and are the primary mode of aerial transportation for the Horde. Night elves pick up the Hippogriff's and the Undead will have a bat-like creature. While the mounts have been finalized for some races, (Orc:Wolf, Human:Horse, Dwarf:Ram, Night Elf:Panther, Undead:Nightmares) Tauren will receive the ability for mount like speed and the Gnome and Troll mounts are not finalized yet. Goblins will sell aerial transport from the different factions cities. Expect to pay more for any goblin rendered services however.

Character Level Ups

Character stat progression is set. When you are a warrior, you get some much strength every level. But you do get a chance to allocate talents and secondary skill points. Talents allow you to do things like ride exotic mounts, or learn new devastating attacks. Skill points are used for Herbalism, Cooking, First Aid, etc.

It Wouldn't Be Blizzard...

Through this article and the other impressions that we have read, one aspect of World of Warcraft stands out. The ability of Blizzard to make a game that you forget you are playing. In the previews we read up to E3 and again in this preview we hear the refrain that the game is seamless. In the vein of Warcraft and Diablo games before it, leveling becomes almost an afterthought. Ever play Diablo II and forget you leveled? Well so did these guys. Expect a fully immersive, intuitive game like you have always expected from Blizzard. Then expect to play it with a few thousands of your closest friends.

When Can I Buy This Magazine?	

It should be in subscribers mailboxes shortly. Otherwise on newsstands on September 2nd.









Q&A Quickie Joshua Kurts - Level Designer

How will banks work?

In the cities such as Stormwind and Thunderbluff there will be banks where you are able to 
store your items for free, for as long as you want and at no charge. If you wish to store 
one of your carrying bags you will need to pay a small charge. You simply go to the teller 
and click on them and your bank account inventory will appear. Drag and drop whichever 
items you wish to store and then close.  No one else has access to it, even if you wanted to assign privileges to someone and you do not earn interest on the money you deposit there.  You can access your account at any bank in any city.  It's really like a mobile stash, only bigger and far more classy.

How do players trade?

Learn more about Trading Interfaces There is a trade interface which allows you to safely swap items and/or cash between different characters. It works in the same fashion as Diablo II's trade interface. You drag and drop your items into the trade window and the other party does the same, you press 'accept' when you are happy with the trade and when both parties have done so the exchange of items will automatically swap the items into the other player's inventory.

How large an inventory will you have on your character?

Learn more about this in our Interfaces section Apart from the items you are wearing there are is the backpack and also slots for four more bags of varying sizes, you could potentially have 50+ items on your person as each item only takes up one space no matter what its size.

What is the Shadow Resistance?

Learn more about resistances here This is your protection against dark skills, demonic magiks, the kind you see the Warlock has access to.

Does the Druid's bird form have an attack?

Learn more about the Druid ...>No, it is primarily used for travel at a greater speed than the Druids' running speed. {ED Note - We saw the Carrion attack something on the final day of the show - day after this interview - so either Joshua is mistaken or the Carrion doesn't inflict any damage.  We didn't see any HP loss indicating rise above the targets head however}

What use is the secondary skill building furniture?

Learn more about Secondary Skills ...>This would be for player housing however as player housing's inclusion hasn't yet been decided, if and how it will be implemented, this skill isn't in the game right now.

Can you have a pillion on your mount?

No only you can ride your mount.

Will there be player titles awarded when you have reached a certain character level?

This hasn't been decided yet.

As the Druid/Huntress level up will they evolve into Keeper of the Grove/Priestess of the Moon?

"We haven't announced that yet" <grin>

The white cats we see with the female Huntress in screenshots, what is it?

Learn more about the HunterIt's a leopard she has tamed as her pet and she can not ride it.

How many slots will there be for your spells and items?

Learn more about this in our Interfaces sectionThere are twelve slots in a row and 12 rows, you can scroll the rows up and down by using the Shift 1 to = keys or by using he small up and down arrows on the left of the row.  Once you have the row of items/skills you want you can hit 1 to = to activate/use, or right click on it with your mouse.

Can you explain some of the warrior's skills.

Learn more about the Warrior ... > Aggressive Stance - Combat Mastery, Instant cast, 30 second colldown. 10 second effect +4 damage.

Reckless Strike - Combat Mastery, Instant case, 5 minute cooldown, 5 yard range. Instant effect, Critical Strike, 10 second effect. -10 Defence.

Whirlwind II - Combat Mastery, 2 second cast & 3 minute cooldown. Instant effect. Weapon damage +26-30. Target enemies within 8 yard of caster.

Follow Through III - combat Mastery. 1 minute cooldown. Next melee attack with have weapon damage of +30.

Power Stance - Combat Mastery. Instant cast. 3 minute cooldown. 10 second effect with +100% chance to critical strike.







Title: Second official Game Play movie.
Released: 3 March 2003
Download : 23.6MB Windows and Mac version here.

After a quiet spell, Blizzard have now released the second game play movie showing some of the newer features in action including mounts.

The movie is 2 minutes 50 seconds in length.  A new musical score accompanies, far more rousing than the bites previously released.  All the game sound effects can be heard in the background. 

0:17 - The movie starts with a Dwarven warrior mounted on his steed making his way to the top of a snowy hillside, probably some place in Khaz Modan.  The snow crunches underfoot and the horse neighs as the Dwarf brings him to a stop.  As he raises his sword the music begins and the remainder of his group join him and all four immediately charge full pelt down the hillside and into the camera.  One of the other horsemen raises his fist also and it could be that both the fist and sword raising are our first look at emotes in action.

0:24 - The scene then fades to the Swamp of Sorrows and rapid 3rd person sweep across the marshy floor, the camera at times passes straight through small elevated wooden platforms with lit with wooden torches. Some place dry to eat and rest.  A clearing in the trees brings us to a group of five Orc warriors, one of which is female.  One male has a Mohican hairstyle and the other two give Dr. David Banner a run for his money in the hairdo department.  There is a fifth Orc but he's off to the right hand side but you can just make out his arm a second or two later.

They're all in medium armour and carrying one-handed weapons with no shields and none have head gear on either.  The female has a pike, the two Orcs to the rear wield a hammer and a mace while the one in the front carries an Axe.  He issues a war cry, raising his arms and looks skyward and a second later the rest of his party join in with the female jumping in the air.  The war cry may just be an emote for the cameraman's benefit rather than a Warcry skill as there are no accompanying effects and skill cries would surely warrant some sort of visual indication.

0:31 - Then we move onto Dun Morogh and possibly the base of a quarry into one huge battle against a pack of Troggs.  There's only two seconds of this scene but it's just enough to see a Dwarf perform a sizeable leap over a fighting group.  This shot shows where he leapt from and to. This is the first time we've seen a character leap in this way and it certainly seems by the distance and height he travels that this could be a skill rather than an innate ability of all characters.  No other character types or races perform this in the movie.

0:34 - We jump to another battle, this time in the Swamp of Sorrows and it's Orcs Vs. Humans {an possibly a dwarf or two}!  This scene demonstrates various weapon imbues and protection auras.  We can see an Orc on the right hand side battling a human and he has a small banner floating above his head, not dissimilar to the one shown in this screenshot from May 2002. This skill has been confirmed as 'Frost Armor' by Blizzard. It doesn't necessarily mean that the Orcs are under the influence of the same spell in both instances but perhaps the banners above the heads indicate a category of spell.

To the left of this group there are other small two or three character skirmishes taking place and the humans appear to be protected by another buff spell, this time 'defend', as confirmed by Blizzard, indicated by the floating luminous shields circling around their midriffs, and they're using imbued swords. The Orcs they're battling on the other hand have no such 'auras' and their weapons although menacing are not imbued and on contact their weapons ignite no elemental effects.

0:37 - We switch back to the earlier battle in Dun Morogh with the Troggs. Right in front of the camera a Dwarf battles a Trogg. The Dwarf is protected by a defence enhancing aura which disappears just as we get there. Behind him a human female run across the screen, she's carrying a bow but switches to duel wielding two daggers and strikes a Trogg. Just as he dies, both of his massive fists dramatically slamming on the ground as he goes, two small pink flashes materialize at her side and it's not clear if that's the after-effects of some imbue on her daggers or she was hit by something from the Trogg. The latter seems unlikely as we've seen no indication Troggs' attacks being imbued. As the Trogg falls to the ground ad blonde female warrior with a two-handed sword nearly as tall as her runs to the aid of the Dwarven warrior.

0:42 - In the larger melee of about 10 characters {Dwarves and Humans} and 4 or 5 Troggs we can see that Troggs leap high into the air before thumping their massive fists onto their target.  The one you see on the left doesn't fare too well however as he dies less than a second later.  There is another dwarf performing a massive leap, this time across the entire group towards us, landing on both feet simultaneously.

There are 2 or three spell casters on the outskirts of the main fray probably supporting their party members with offensive and defensive skills.  There are a couple of human females and a male in a white robe who must be fairly confident as he is in amongst the battle as you can see from this final shot in the sequence.

0:48 - The next short sequence glides through the trees of Elwynn Forest passing over a pair of wolves and a masked thief. We're soon back into the action however.

0:52 - We enter a forte-like encampment nestled in what appears to be Elwynn Forest to find a battle royal between Dwarves and Humans against Orcs and Taurens.  Gender equality is fully demonstrated in this scene.  In the foreground a massive Orc takes on a petite Dwarf.  She has an axe and shield and he's dual wielding two scimitars.  We don't see her die but she takes four hits during the sequence, letting blood twice and I fear it must be curtains for her only moments after the scene cuts.  As the camera circles around these pair we can see a Human female against Orc male in the background.  Some sort of spell effect engulfs the human and it's not entirely clear where it originates, the Orc Warrior she is fighting seems most likely. Just off camera to the right an Orc shoots a single Fireball at her back. Cowardly custard! At the same moment a blue swirling aura goes up around the Orc Warrior.  There are no additional effects when he hits the human or when she hits him so probably he's imbued with some sort of protection that doesn't reflect damage back to her.

0:59 - For the first time in this film we see a couple Taurens getting some action.  One against a male human and one against a male dwarf in the distant background.  The one to rear is of most interest.  Twice a green dripping cloud ignites above the Dwarf's head and it looks distinctly poison-like. It just doesn't look like a defensive skill which leaves either something from the Tauren he is fighting or from elsewhere. As the camera swings around we see a potential perpetrator.  Click the thumb to see a split screen of the cause and effect.  It really doesn't look like a Tauren or an Orc and all the other battles consist of these two groups so it looks as if in this instance the Human has attacked the Dwarf but as parties aren't race-restricted that's not entirely unlikely.

1:00 - We move away from battle and onto an altogether more serene clip. It's very brief but this looks to be Stormwind down in the south in Azeroth.   Outside on the right hand side a Ballista can be seen parked - this is a Night Elf unit in Warcraft III but that doesn't necessarily mean Night Elves will be in WoW, although it would seem a waste not to have them.  We first saw a siege weapon {human steam tank} parked outside a stronghold in this shot of Ironforge {Dwarven homeland}.  Probably in both cases the weapons are merely background art.

Once through the colossal wooden gates, either side of which are two massive towers, a carved lion's head and blue banner adorn both, you pass under a stone and wooden archway lined with wooden lanterns and onto a stone bridge which leads over the “Valley of Heroes,” into the heart of the city.  Flanking are two massive stone statues, on the right a warrior and on the left a mage.  Just then the scene cuts away for a few seconds.

1:07 - Now in Strangletorn, a couple of Orcs a Tauren and human warrior attack and kill a tiger.  He has time to get one limp attack and roar in before it's all over.

1:12 - We're back to Stormwind and through an inner set of gates into the "trade district".  The same banner that adorned the towers by the main gates now hangs overhead.  Two guards in full armour guard either side of the entranceway.  Traveling down the boulevard we can clearly see shops either side.  The sign hanging outside the first on the left could be compass points so perhaps a cartographers, the first on the right hand side we can see a wedge of cheese, a grocers maybe. Opposite that on the left a sign with an image of a couple of potion bottles so possibly an apothecary and lastly on the right an we see a sign displaying an open chest so this could be a bank or perhaps some sort of storage facility.  In the distance we see the spire of the cathedral.  Apart from the two guards at the entranceway the street is empty, no shopkeepers and no shoppers.

1:15 - Another area said to be someplace around Elwynn Forest, certainly the trees look similar, the buildings look similar to those in Goldshire and Northshire also. Blizzard have called this the "mage district". Stone and wooden beams with red slate roofs. One thing is for sure this has definitely featured in this screenshot released in November of 2002.  Whereas that shot was taken from low down here we glide over a small stone bridge with a streetlamp on and in between the buildings and towers high up amongst the treetops.  Birdsong can just be made out.

1:20 - We join a group of four humans, two male and two female and all look to be warriors.  We can see some emotes {character gestures} being performed.  The female on the left can be seen straight away holding her hands out in front of her wide apart, bow in her left hand, as if relaying a fishing story 'yes, it was this big, honestly'.  The fully armoured warrior next to her is performing a decidedly dodgy gesture.  I'm not sure if the meaning is international but in the UK it means you're more than a little attracted to the person you're gesturing it towards. Perhaps in other countries it means you have a sore elbow or you'd like to give blood immediately. The female next to him doesn't look to be performing an emote, rather just fidgets.  The other male does look like he's doing an emote but it's difficult to work out what it conveys.  Just as the shot fades out a number of things happen at the same time. The first female holds her hands up and shrugs her shoulders as if to say "I do not know".  A chap behind our group leaps up onto a wall and a third human guy walks into shot. He has a great looking imbued sword holstered to his back.  A green and purple hue emanates - poison and attack rating enhancements?

1:24 - On over a cobbled path and small green verge into the warmth of a local tavern.  We've seen this before in shots released in November 2002.  Two shots, an overhead and an eye level.  Outside the door we see a sign with a tankard swinging in the breeze.   On through the door and down a great hallway we find ourselves inside the warmth of the bar.  There we find a couple of humans holding court by dancing on the bar.  As well as the people watching the guys on the bar there's a guy waving his sword around in front of another guy, perhaps a salutation of some sort.  Ornate rugs line the floor and tankards the massive rustic tables.  Candelabras light the tables.  This looks like a very reasonable place to hang out in. It's probably safe from hostile players too.

1:32 - This looks to be the cathedral we mentioned above, it has enough spires to be and is tall enough. Blizzard have called this the "Cathedral of Light", which is the spiritual heart of the city. The streets around it are abandoned, there's not a soul about but all the street lamps are lit and you can see well tended planted areas line the street.  This is not a poor district.  The lights are on and cathedral bells ring out calling the local community to evening prayers.  This is a majestic cathedral, it's sweeping steps {carpeted no less!} and grand gothic windows are in stark contrast to Northshire Abbey where the features are a lot busier and the whole building has a more gingerbread feel about it.  It's unknown if we were to walk in we would see a service being carried out or bell ringers or would access to the bell tower be locked and the caretakers never been seen?  Just how far will ambient town life extend isn't clear yet.

1:36 - Fading from the cathedral into what can be best described as an Alchemists hall.  Bunsen burners and test tubes brew and ferment on a long wooden table.  In the centre of the room in a large pit burns a very large fire, stacked with long pieces of wood somewhat like a bonfire. Lining the walls are small archways. Stairs look to lead off one on the left and the rest either have shutters closed across them or are lined with shelves which are in turn lined with books.  The domed ceiling has massive wooden braces running up its entire height supporting the stone ceiling.  All this would be merely background art if it weren't for the robed mage character who seems to be wearing some sort of mask. We've had to turn the brightness up on the full screen shot a great deal so you can see the yellow band running round his head holding what looks to be a flat mask in front of his face.  He has a blue bladed sword in his hand.  He's not moving at all and there's nothing to indicate if he's a local alchemist NPC or a player character.

1:38 - Now we could actually be in the cathedral, the architecture looks very similar. We're in a long hall, no ambient sound at all, no bells or footsteps. Unlit candelabras line the nave and the length of floor looks to be painted with green runners with cream diamonds.  Two clerics guard the carpeted stairs up to the altar.

1:44 - Well here's something new. We knew there would be boats but this confirms that we will at least be allowed on them, if not sail on them or better still command them ourselves.  This could be the Dragon Boat from The Art of Warcraft.  On deck there are four humans {one warrior and three mages} fighting a Skeleton Warrior.  When we join them he's already encased in 'Chains of Ice' as confirmed by Blizzard and is unable to move.  All but the mage on the left appear to be melee attacking and we see that mage fires off an almighty Frost bolt which explodes and kills on impact.  He doesn't appear to drop any goodies. You can see a four piece sequence by following the thumb on the right.

1.46 - Before we've had a chance to blink we're off the deck and under the water and swimming.  Blizzard have said swimming would be in but this is our first view of it in action.  There's a good six or seven characters swimming towards a sunken wreck one of which has their glowing sword strapped to their back.  It doesn't illuminate the sides of the entranceway as they swim into the ship however.  Swimming will probably have to consume the Vitality/Endurance/Vigor attribute. It's not known yet if characters can battle underwater or drown should they consume all the attribute that is needed.  This sequence doesn't throw any light on either of those points. The female mage on the left of the large screen shot seems to have a snorkel, that cream coloured stick thing stays in position as she moves, it's not a piece of floating debris and it does not flap about as if it were a neck tie.

1:52 - Still in the depths but now we're underground and in a mine. It's a working mine too.  Running through this sequence with the brightness turned right up you can see three characters, none of which are moving. Thing is, they don't look like Dwarves which is the first thing you think of when you see short stocky characters in a mine. However, they don't entirely look like Dwarves, their shape seems wrong.  The third one you can see in this sequence looks like the Butcher from Diablo. They certainly aren't Goblins or Kobolds which are two races you might expect to find working underground. Much of the quality is lost when you begin to mess with the brightness/contrast and these are the best shots you can get.

1:56 - This is a difficult terrain to place.  The path leads through a marshy clearing, or at least it's getting that way, dank and olive colour so you could imagine it being on the outskirts of the Swamp of Sorrows on the east coast of Azeroth, just before it gets overgrown and suffocating.  The buildings built straight into the rock face have been best demonstrated previously in this shot also up north in Don Morogh {in Khaz Modan}, you can see they look almost identical; the double band of carving around the top of the tower, the slits.  Blizzard have confirmed that the waterfall is in the "Wetlands" at the bottom of Stonewrought Dam in Lock Modan.  Well there's Khaz Modan up north so we'll assume this is where the Loch is situated and that it runs down to the Wetlands and over this cliff face here.

2:01 - An entranceway into the mountainside.  Looks too elaborate to be a mine entrance, perhaps a Dwarven stronghold. We see an Ogre motionless just by the entranceway and as our party of four approaches he moves off, oblivious to us it would seem. The party looks to be made up of four humans, 1 warrior and 3 mages one of whom is carrying a lit torch.  No one seems in a rush and no one has their weapon drawn. Another couple of steps closer to the large entranceway and the scene cuts off.

2:05 - Now we jump back to continue on the path to the waterfall and what a gorgeous looking waterfall it is too.  There doesn't appear to be any spray rising up from the crashing stream of water and there should be.  Maybe it's not visible because of the video quality or maybe that's a final touch.

2:11 - A coliseum.  The closest we have ever gotten to this was this arena in Stranglethorn released in September of 2001.  Considerably smaller than what we have here.

A crowd of a few hundred look down from the terraces. The crowds' cheers are audible above the music. Down in the pit are a Tauren and Orc warrior in medium armour and both are wielding axes. The Orc lets out a mighty war cry and raises his arms in the air. The Tauren casually scratches is lower back.  Class.

The camera jumps to another duo, this time a Human and a Tauren and the human also lets out a war cry. He has his sword still stored on his back, a purple blue aura emanates from it. These pair of warriors are in full plate armour.

Then we see their opponents. Blood red eyes, razor sharp fangs and claws that would make quick work of your soft and tender bits. These wolf-like Worgen stand easily twice as tall as a human male and a second later the pack of werewolves engage the human and tauren. Despite being roughly the size of the werewolf's leg the human male seems to have some powerful magic up his sleeve. His sword is drawn and he takes one strike at the Wolf, still holding his sword in two hands he pulls back and we see a build up of energy about the man's hands. He holds for a second and then throws his left hand forward releasing whatever it was onto two wolves. We can see the wolf take a swipe with his oversized paw just as the scene cuts away.

2:28 - Back to Elwynn and a parade of humans and dwarves. Human archers to the rear have their bows ready.  You can't help but notice the fabulous outfits these guys are wearing, particularly the emerald number the third archer is wearing.  Below them stand dwarves equipped with rifles and swords.  It's interesting to see that characters can have their weapons poised without firing. Gives you plenty of opportunity to stand atop cliff faces looking windswept and interesting yet slightly menacing at the same time.

2.29 - We are back into the coliseum arena but there are no Werewolves this time, just Murlocs.  A different palette than we have seen to date. These are very vivid purple, pink and turquoise.  We can see another 'aura' this time benefiting a Tauren. 

At 2:34 we flick back to the parade of humans and dwarves in Elwynn and this time we can see there are a couple of human mages and a human warrior who looks to be in command.

2:36 - Once more back into the coliseum and to the 'Frost Giant'.  A couple of Tauren, an Orc and a Human attempt to battle him and this looks like a totally futile endeavour given the size and shear strength this beast possesses. He demonstrates two types of attacks here. First, he smashes his giant hammer on the ground and the Orc seems to take some damage, there is a yellow flash. He then takes what can be best described as a golf swing at his assailants.  Miraculously he does fall in the end however.  These could be the major quest monster that will require the super-group parties to deal with.

2:45 - The final scenes takes us back to the parade and we see an ice-based projectile from a human mage and gun fire from a Dwarve's rifle.





 Game_Over spend some time with Blizzard at the 2003 E3 computer show. Recently, WorldofWar.net had a chance to spend some time with Game_Over (or forxr on our forums) and ask him some questions about his experience playing the World of Warcraft demo at E3 last May. You can read more about his time at E3 with his report on MrFixItOnline.com here.

Date : 26 June 2003

WorldofWar.net: How much time did you get to play World of Warcraft at E3?

Game_Over: Well over an hour, in fact, I am honestly not sure, I lost track of time when I played it, I hopped around on several different WoW "booth/consoles" so I would get a different blizzard employee to ask questions to, and get feedback on their opinion of the game.

WorldofWar.net:What feature were you most anxious to see before you arrived? Did you get to see it?

Game_Over: Well, I knew they were not going to announce anything big in WoW at E3, just tons and tons of little stuff. I heard flying mounts were in, just before I left, and I definitely wanted to see that in action. But really I just wanted to play the game, pictures, and even video’s don’t do the game justice at all, people complain how world looks to cartoon-y, but when your in the world playing it you don’t notice that all, instead your awed by the awesome graphics, and blizzards intense work at detail, the world looked far more alive then the high end graphics photo realism attempt that was in the EverQuest 2 demo.

WorldofWar.net: What type of characters did you play?

Game_Over: Well, all of them. Each console/booth had a list of 10 Characters to choose from and I made sure I played all the races, and all the different classes available. I can tell you now, I couldn’t choose a favorite if I tried.

WorldofWar.net: What feature impressed you most during your demo?

Game_Over: Once again blizzards attention to detail, you have to see it to believe, but it makes an incredible impact on the game. But also the coolness factor, the spells are cool, the buildings are cool, the landscapes are interesting. You really want to get out and explore, just for the sights alone. Also the world is so animated, the mobs, are busy doing what they do when you show up, they don’t just sit around waiting for you to kill them. You really feel like you are disturbing them from their daily life, instead of them just waiting for you to show up, they have their idle animations that are varied and believable. Also, when I was on the mount, at least on the high-end computers they had at e3, the landscape was beautiful from up high. You didn’t lose any textures or polygon count from up high. And the mountains! They were real mountains! Not the mole-hill’s you see in every other game! The approach to Ironforge entrance by air in Dun Morog was stunning. I could go on…

WorldofWar.net: What would you consider to be the biggest surprise you learned about WoW at E3?

Game_Over: Perhaps the biggest surprise was their was no big surprise, I guess I followed the game too closely before hand and the game played almost exactly how I thought it would. I guess the staff would be the biggest surprise, they been working for so long and so hard on the game and yet they are so excited to show off their game, to explain it in detail and answer any questions you had with the demo. I was also surprised that they let us play it, instead of just giving you a pre-fab tour to everyone.

WorldofWar.net: What was the biggest disappointment you had about WoW at E3?

Game_Over: I couldn’t make a new character! I really wanted to see the character creation process and the newbie zone. Also I didn’t get to go in any caves/dungeons.

WorldofWar.net: What regions of the game did you get to see? Which was your favorite and why?

Game_Over: Hmm… that I can remember, I saw: Dun Morogh (and Ironforge) Stormwind, (I think?) The Elven starting city, and a small Orc outpost near a beach. Ironforge is the easy winner as favorite region with the awesome lighting and awesome general feel to it hard to explain but it really felt like you were in a Dwarven city and it was so unique to cities I have visted in other MMORPGS. However the Elven starting town was also cool because I really felt like I was down in one of those (large) Elven bases that you make in Warcraft 3.





Title: First Unofficial 4Gamers.net Game Play movie.
Date: 18 June 2003
Download 29mb {right click and save as}

Frost Armor

Our movie opens with a human mage showing off her fire and cold skills. Her skills interface is open and looks to be full of fire and cold skills. She starts by casting a frost armor spell twice. Why twice? Hard to say, the skill indictor does not change, most likely this was just to show the spell effect. The icy shield clearly visible above her head. This spell also causes the buff indicator to show in the upper right of the screen near the mini-map.

She runs off into the swamp and sights a Mosshide Gnoll. She starts an offensive spell that looks like it has a power up indicator. The yellow bar fills to full and then there is a damage indicator over the gnoll's head.

Chains of Ice

At :21 there is another gnoll visible in the swamp beyond. He doesn't seem very interested in his fellow's predicament. She takes two whacks at the gnoll with her staff, dealing what looks like reasonable damage when compared with the initial spell. Before she can get a third whack in however, the message "Interrupted" is displayed above the action. By :30, she has had enough of the melee combat and powers up the Chains of Ice spell to encase her opponent in an icy prison.

Obviously, she is playing with her prey at this point. His health bar has been steadily decreasing, while he has barely scratched her. Her next spell turns the hapless gnoll into a polymorphed sheep. Before that happens, you can see the game giving the player feedback. There are two messages above the Gnoll; "You are facing the wrong way to attack your victim!" and "You are too far away from your victim". These are examples of the feedback that Blizzard will have in the game to tell you as a player how the combat is going for you.

Polymorph

She gives the gnoll/sheep a final whack and then she runs off into the swamp. Notice that unlike the druid's shapechange skill, the polymorphed creeps keep their name and red indicator. It's hard to make out, but it looks like they are in the wetlands area that we referred to in our E3 report this year.

The video shifts venues at :42 and now we are standing submerged in the waters of Baradin Bay. One of the first things we notice about swimming is that it seems that either our mage is capable of a water breathing type spell, has grown gills, or there is no penalty for being underwater. As she swims around, her health and energy bars stay nice and constant in the upper left of the movie. She actually heals while she swims. The swimming looks to be controlled on all three axis. We see her decide to swim down a level. No encounters in this section of the movie, just a nice relaxing, refreshing swim.

Arena

By 1:09 she has finished her swim and appears in Stranglethorn Vale. From 1:09 to 1:38 she runs up a ramp into a vacant arena. This looks to be the same arena we saw in the official gameplay movie released in March.  This venue will hold public duel which players can arrange to take part in and also buy tickets to spectate. You can a battle taking place from that movie in these shots

#18 Ogre Cave

She is then moved to an Ogre cave. The mini-map is hard to make out, but there is the common practice of naming Ogres with a single ' in the middle of the name. Also she starts here with a friendly character nearby. The name of the character, "Cartlin" is visible as this stage of the clip begins at 1:41.  Curiously the entrance to the cave seems to have the number 18 painted above it.  This appears to be the same cave we saw a group of characters walking towards at night in the March gameplay movie too.

Either falling damage is not in the game yet, or the jump from the cliff ledge is not high enough. Regardless, she comes down off the ledge without taking any damage. Blizzard has been concerned with collision in the game, and you can see obviously here that it is not turned on between players and creeps. Our mage friend runs right through numerous one-headed ogres on her way out of the Ogre cave.

One head
better than two?

Blizzard has not explained yet why there are again one-headed ogres. The ogres were one headed in Warcraft: Orcs and Humans, but two headed in Warcraft II and Warcraft III. At 1:52, an interesting difference in the stonework is seen on the left of the screen. Obviously an interesting piece, as it is guarded by an Ogre who seems quite disinterested in our mage interloper. Every ogre in the cave ignores her actually, very similar to how the gnoll did not engage until the mage struck first. This is something that could be easily tweaked however.

At 1:57, she is clear of the cave and the loading indictor "Loch Modan" comes across the screen. The loading zones are demonstrated here to be completely seemless. What's interesting is that although the loading screen changed, the minimap title does not. At 2:02 we get a quick glimpse of an ogre encampment, two ogres standing by a campfire at the entrance for the cave. More ogres prowl the valley. None of them threaten the mage however, they move about their business, completely ignoring her. The ogre that moves past her carries some sort of axe. The next one to move into a near field of vision has a staff. We close out the video after watching the ogres move from tree to tree on patrol. Right at the end of the video (2:37) we see the tooltip come up with the Ogre's level and health.






Title: Second Unofficial 4Gamers.net Game Play movie.
Date: 18 June 2003
Download 53mb {right click and save as}
Boosting Attributes

The movie starts in Deadwind Pass with the paper doll interface open for a Level 31 Female Mage, Sandra An annotated paper doll for another character can be seen here. We're given a quick demo of the 3D model rotation to best show of her outfit. Her stats at this level read:

Strength : 21
Agility : 21
Stamina : 25 {boosted}
Intellect : 51 {boosted 49 +2 boost from equipment}
Spirit : 34

These have affected her performances stats as follows:

Attack : 153
Damage : 45 - 54
Attack Speed : 3.20
Defence : 145
Armour : 82 {boosted}

Resistances

Holy : 14
Fire : 15 
Nature : 14 
Frost : 14 
Shadow : 15 {14+1}

She doesn't have all her equipment slots filled. The helm, avatar, tabard/tunic, vest and a couple of the Rings/Trinkets slots are empty. The weapons he does demo are:

Magebane Staff
Epic Quality
Soulbound
Two-Handed
45 - 53 Shadow Damage
Effect : Fire Damage Bonus
Effect : Frost Damage Bonus
Level 35
Min Level 30
Speed 3.20

Fingerbone Bracers
Good Quality
Wrist
5 Armor
+1 Intellect
+7 mana
Level 25
Min Level 20

Inferno Robe
Good Quality
Chest
10 Armor
+ 1 Fire Resistance
+ 1 Intellect
Level 26
Min Level 21

Robe
Back
5 Armor
+ 1 Shadow Resistance
+1 Spirit
+1 Stamina
Level 30
Min Level 25

Azora's Will
Good Quality
Unique
Finger
+15 Mana
Level 20
Min Level 15

Bluegill Sandals
Good Quality
Feet
6 Armor
+2 Stamina
Level 21
Mini Level 16

He removes the sandals from her and you see the 3D model changes to show her barefoot. He demos the auto placement of items as referenced in our Interfaces section.

At 0:36 he displays the Mage's Skill's interface. These are core skills of every mage and improve with use, skills such as Fire Magic, Frost Magic and Daggers. He also flicks through her abilities and spell interfaces.  She has a full compliment of carrying sacks, some with no contents yet.

We Want You!

1:13 She then appears in Elwynn Forest just outside Stormwind. She makes her way under the archway, across the Valley of Heroes and into the Keep.  She stops to look at the plaques on the pedestals of the Statues, commemorating these bygone champions.  In the background you can see the enormous spires of the Cathedral of Light.  As she moves off the bridge, heading towards the inner walls of the city the camera swings round to show the lake that lies beneath. 

Arcane
Vendor

2:05 She heads through the entrance, as always patrolled by a couple of guards who pay her no attention, down the main cobbled avenue lined by shops on either side.  Had she been a Tauren or Orc is would have been quiet a different story. They would have prevented her gaining access and things could have gotten nasty.  Hovering over the wooden shop signs brings up the shops' name.  She chooses to go into an Arcane Goods Vendor. There's another NPC character in there, a female in a long robe. The mouse briefly moves over her and she highlights but our mage moves on right by her and to the male Vendor. After examining his inventory decides he has nothing for her. She heads back out onto the street.

Street Kids

She carries on towards the back of the town, towards the Cathedral of light, passing an ornate fountain where people are milling about and for the first time we get to see a child.  Quite a few little ones actually, girls and boys in cute pinafores and shorts and shirts, perhaps school uniforms?  There are a few women around the area also in blue gowns and maybe these are their school mistresses. The mage walks up to a small girl and stands by her for a moment and we see her swinging her arms, in a daydream. The rest of the children are motionless.

2:49 She continues off down a small cobbled backstreet towards another one of these 'school mistress' types and then the demonstrator jumps us to another area. This is the area where characters can pick up gondolas to ferry them around the canals of Stormwind for a small fee. It's quicker than walking and more fun.  He quickly points out the prominent features in the skyline which will help characters identify specific areas such as the Warrior District {Red banners mark these areas} or Mage District {plum coloured roofing on their buildings}.  Of course the spires of the massive Cathedral of Light are another landmark.

Transport Ship

3:08 We're transported to Menethil Harbor, The Wetlands.  She makes her way through the small group of houses and to the dock where there is a transport ship waiting.  She leaps up onto the jetty and over a barrel with no effort and past a deck hand.  We've seen this area in a recent screenshot too, which is somewhat clearer than the movie.  She boards the ship via the plank and runs into another NPC deck hand. He pays her no attention.  We can see inside a room on the ship but there's nothing much to see and frustratingly she doesn't head inside. The camera swings around which allows you a good look at the deck area.

3:46 and we're whisked off to Blackrock Mountain and she heads straight into the dramatic mount, past the molten fountain. The character stands still for a moment and then the scene changes to Kalidar, the starting location for the Night Elves in Kalimdor.  This is yet another incredibly atmospheric area.  Even in the shot below you can appreciate that. Tiny illuminous wisps dart between the giant trees. Our mage heads towards a font with stone pillars surrounding it and meanders down to a beautiful moonlit lake and pauses. 

This unfortunately is where we leave her and the movie.





Title: Third Unofficial 4Gamers.net Game Play movie.
Date: 18 June 2003
Download 32mb {right click and save as}
Gryphon Masters' Destination Map

Where to?

The movies centres around a transport by Gryphon across a huge distance. There's no gameplay or character details revealed but it's still well worth the download as you get to see the spectacular scenery.

It starts at the character selection screen where we flick though a number of characters.  Human Mage, Tauren Warrior, Dwarven Warrior, Orc Warlock and finally Male Warrior {Tucker} which is what the demonstrator selects and takes into Stormwind.  We begin at the Gryphon Masters and buy transport on a Gryphon to speed up the journey across vast distances.  A Gryphon nest sits in the corner where a Gryphon hovers.  The Gryphon Master displays the Gryphon Transport map and we select Ironforge as our destination which costs us 50 copper pieces. Once Tucker has hired his ride it appears besides him and once clicked he's automatically mounts it.

He heads out of the Gryphon Master's, over the Valley of Heroes and into Elwynn Forest. The Gryphon soars above Elwynn and the camera gives us spectacular views of the mountain ranges beyond and the monumental Blackrock Spire on the horizon.  Still on route to Ironforge the scene changes to night as we move into Northshire Vineyards.  Northshire Abby slips silently by us as we move into the Valley.  The scene changes again and we're in the arid Burning Steppes. Orc camps can be seen clearly below and statues of bygone heroes.  We leave the flight at The Cauldron via Searing Gorge.






Date : 3 September 2003
WorldofWar.net: 	What impressed you most about the Blizzard employees you met?

Jeff Green:
	

Well, I have met many of them many times before, when doing stories on previous Blizzard games--and I always have a great time. Professionally, they are all amazing, talented people, and personally, it's just really a bunch of nice, normal, geeky gamer types like me and you. It's hard to believe that in the middle of this kind of icky, Southern California "business park" environment, with all these Dockers-wearing drones around, that there is this enclave of artists and techno-geeks working at such a cool place.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What type of characters were you able to play, how many of them did you create yourself?

Jeff Green:
	

All the characters that I played, and that the other editor, Thierry Nguyen, played, were created by ourselves. That was one of the stipulations of our article. We didn't want them pre-making uber characters that would not be representative of what people would actually play. So, as best as I can remember (and at my age that is not always easy), the characters I created were: a Dwarf Paladin, an Undead Mage, a Tauren Druid, and an Orc Warrior.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Are you able to customize the stats of a new character or are they set for all beginning class and race combinations?

Jeff Green:
	

All the stats were predetermined when we first created the characters--it's part of their design philosophy that they don't want newbies getting stuck tweaking numbers before even playing. But you hit those first few level ups very early, so the number-tweaking begins fairly rapidly. As I said in the article, it reminded me a lot of Diablo II in that way.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Were there many crashes of the client or the servers in your two days there?

Jeff Green:
	

Well, understand that this game is not even in beta yet. Crashes are part of the process, and to expect otherwise is just silly and naive. If I say "yes" here, then some folks might think, "the game is buggy! Oh no!" But of course the game is buggy--it's a work in progress. Every single day they compile a new build. Now, that said, I should say that the entire first day we played with almost no hitches whatsoever, which is more than I can say for some actually released MMORPGs that people are paying for. On the second day, with the new build, things were more unstable, because some new code caused a few problems. The end result of that is that we went back to playing the previous day's build again. But none of that means anything, really, and anyone reading this should know that.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What was your favorite race, class, and skill?

Jeff Green:
	

Well, I always have a soft spot in my heart for Dwarf Paladins. (In games, I mean--not real life.) That was my EQ character for years--which is one reason I wanted to create one here, to see how it compared. But of the four I created, I think I have to admit that my favorite was my female Tauren Druid, Elsie. Those poor female Taurens--not the race for guys to roleplay as girls to score free phat lewt. :) I just loved how unique the race (and their surroundings) looked and felt to play. Around level 5, as a Druid, I was able to start shapeshifting too, which was a blast.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	There have been rumors that each race will have a racial advantage (Tauren’s plain running). Can you shed any light on what the other races might have that make them unique besides a look?

Jeff Green:
	

You know, I really can't other than what was in the article. Thierry and I experimented a lot with the Plains Running, which was great--kind of like a SOW in EverQuest. As the article also mentioned, the Undead will get a language advantage to start--they'll be the only race able to understand both the Horde and Alliance. Other than that, it was just theory at the time of our visit--but I'm sure they'll differentiate each race.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Was the night elf rogue you constructed able to shadowmeld? (become hidden at night if they stayed still)

Jeff Green:
	

That was Thierry's character--but yes.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	With differing faction alignments being set, it seems odd that goblins would have transport routes to the other faction’s side. Were there any large neutral cities that you were privy to?

Jeff Green:
	

From what I could see, yes, it seems like there will be plenty of neutral cities--though I shouldn't speculate or I risk drawing Blizzard's wrath. We asked lots of questions like this, like, "How is it that Orcs could ride Gryphons?" And you need not worry, they had answers for everything that will make sense in terms of the story.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	You’ve had what every fan dreams about right now, two days of playing the latest build of World of Warcraft, what should fans be the most excited about?

Jeff Green:
	

Ugh, yeah, I know. I have to remind myself of this every now and then, when I get jaded about my job. Sometimes I forget how lucky we are sometimes. I think the thing fans should be the most excited about is just knowing that this WILL be a Blizzard game. They are dead serious about making this as real and legitimate and worthy of being mentioned in the same breath with all their other games. The fact that Allen Adham, one of the original co-founders, is personally overseeing the game speaks volumes. They do not want to blow it. They've seen the mistakes others have made in this genre and are determined not to repeat them.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What will the fans be surprised by, something that the fans don’t talk about that impressed you about the game?

Jeff Green:
	

This may sound trite, but I don't mean it to be at all: the game is fun. It was addictive in that Diablo-esque way. I mention that fans might be "surprised" because I think a lot of fans are getting hung up on minute details right now, kind of freaking out in advance over things that either aren't decided yet, haven't been seen, or for whatever reason don't make sense to them--like the Undead being a playable race. All I want to say to all those folks is: relax. Trust them. Don't talk about boycotting Blizzard or never playing the game or selling all your Blizzard games or whatever, because it just makes you look a bit ridiculous. Wait and see what they do, play it yourself, and THEN if you're disappointed, go ahead and complain. But let them make the game first!
 

WorldofWar.net:
	(If you were able to play in an underwater area) How did the underwater areas work? Was there a timer for air, or are characters allowed to stay underwater as long as they want?

Jeff Green:
	

No, we couldn't do this. We saw some footage of characters exploring a submerged boat, but we couldn't do it ourselves this time around...
 

WorldofWar.net:
	(If you were able to play with the hero classes) The hero classes are a very interesting idea. Where you able to try any of them out? Which ones?

Jeff Green:
	

Couldn't do this either. Can't wait though. This was one of the smarter new ideas, I thought.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Blizzard is striking off into new territory for them, is there an aspect of this market that you think they might struggle with?

Jeff Green:
	

Well, sure. As we all know, the MMORPG market is riddled with problems and disasters and disappointments. It was really the whole working thesis of my article, going into it: given everything we've seen from everyone else so far, why should we care about WoW? The biggest shock that most developers face with MMORPGs is that, ultimately, what they are delivering is less of a "product" and more of a "service". They don't just finish the game and then sit back and rake in money. They have to service their customers 24/7--maintaining servers, fixing problems, answering player petitions, etc. Plus, they need to constantly provide new content to keep subscribers happy. It's endless. It's a nightmare. You really almost want to tell them, or anyone attempting to try a game like this: Don't do it. But, you know, though they've never done an MMORPG before, they have spent years with their butts in the fire with Battle.net. It's different, and it doesn't totally prepare them for WoW, but it will definitely help.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	You mention in the article that the beta is close. Blizzard recently delayed the start of the beta two months. Based on your gameplay in early July, do you think this is because of a technology issue or a content issue?

Jeff Green:
	

Maybe some of both, but the important thing to remember is that these guys are perfectionists. No one is harder on the game than they are. So the reasons for delays like this are simply because they are trying to get it right. Not because they're trying to piss off their fans or because they're too busy watching the Two Towers DVD all day. They just want it to be ready when they let the public see it. The best thing to do is to be patient, and trust them. Even in the pre-beta state we played it in, it was very solid and extremely entertaining. Just hang on a bit longer--play more WarCraft III if that helps!--and trust that these guys know what they're doing, and have every intention of letting you play the game as soon as possible.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Thanks for the interview and the new screen shots Jeff! We're hoping you get out there again soon to write up specifics on the Gnomes and Trolls too.





    With E3 now over we've been going through all our notes and documentation and have a few more nuggets of information we think you'll be interested in. On our last demo day we wanted to have a few of the more niggling questions answered by the development team.

Currency

If you were wondering about currency in the World of Warcraft then wonder no more. At this stage in development Blizzard have included 3 types of currency, copper, silver and gold. But we were told that this will in all likelihood change and could have already done so but just not be included in the E3 build.  To what we don't know, nor whether it will be three types.

Death Penalty

One question that was over looked is what happens when you die. According to the team, death penalties will be very light. It is unlikely you will lose any experience points or any items so you won't be set back too much in your character development. A different kind of penalty will be applied but Blizzard have not decided what route to take. All they were saying is that they do not wish it to be to the degree that some players will just give up playing, having lost too much in death.  When you die you will jump right back into the game and appear at a spawn point, not where you actually died.

Mortal Combat

Diablo II fans may be wondering if there's a hardcore mode, some with a steel constitution welcome it with open arms. However, Blizzard won't be included in in WoW.  On paper it sounds a plausible idea and although some gamers may like the sound of  it, it would probably be too disheartening in a game such as WoW to lose everything after the hours you have invested, especially in such a large game world.

Professional Nose Wipers

Some gamers may like the idea of a healing character, especially when grouped in a party, but it's felt that a character whose main purpose is that of a healer, to run around with the pack burdened with the task of healing his party members enjoying the fight, is just not fun.  There will be items and characters with the ability to heal but it will be very much secondary to other physical/magical combat skills possessed.

Inventory Management

Auto-stacking is useful in any game where an inventory is involved and as WoW has two it would be preferable if items you'd moved from your backpack on the right to the action slots on the left would replace when consumed. Cheese or ale for example.  This isn't the case with the build we played but it is something under consideration by the team.

Humour

A trademark of the Warcraft Series has been its humorous dialogue. Blizzard's Kevin Jordan who is working on the game's spells commented that its unlikely there will as much audio as in the Warcraft games but they are adding many character fidgets. If you look at the gameplay trailers you may see characters standing stationary and then have a scratch or a wiggle or perform some manoeuvre with their weapon, these are the 'fidgets' and you can expect them to be very varied.

Items 
Cultural diversity 

According to Kevin, Blizzard want players to feel there are many avenues their characters can take in the world. Running round and killing monsters and developing your characters is certainly one of them, trade skills would be another. You can make items to sell to other players and even sell them to vendors or create really unique, highly collectable items that other players would wish to purchase. Further, different areas will generate different types of items, so if you're trying to find skins to tailor a certain type of hide vest you'll need to hunt them down. Due to the different cultures, for example Kalimdor and Azeroth as different continents will have distinctive cultures and therefore chracters from each would look very different due to the skins they'd used to fashion their hide vests or leggings and indeed the items that spawn throughout their 'homeland'. Not much was said about trade skills.  Blacksmithing and Alchemy are two of the skills traders can choose from but more than that wasn't forthcoming.

 

Public Transport

Blizzard were unsure about transportation methods and there has been lots of speculation over the past few months. What they did say was they want to maintain a  convenient way to play WoW so the player doesn't as if they have to run for 45 minutes before they can start adventuring or meet up with a friend.  They want to make more remote settlements harder to find where players will have to explore more to find and eventually reach them . There will be some sort of transportation system in place, Diablo II has waypoints and Blizzard want something in place that'll prove as convenient to the WoW player.

The possibility of mules or horses is a real one, they certainly are hoping to include some sort of mount in the game. But it presents difficult technical obstacles to overcome. If you can imagine a Tauren riding a horse and then try imagine a party, maybe eight, of them doing the same thing and then on from that, in battle, that would take up an awful lot of screen space.  They are trying to think of novel solutions to prevent the screen from becoming a mass of bodies and a huge drain on your machine's resources.  While they feel it'll be a great feature to be able to fight from a horse or travel at accelerated speed on your very own mount it has to be weighed up against performance, so it's by no means in at this time, regardless of rumours.

Real Estate
Online 'families' 

We probed a bit on guilds and Blizzard are well aware they need to create a vibrant social atmosphere in the game and want to support guild structures. Things that have been bandied about include the ability for guilds to communicate in their own channels and they could also be able to wear special guild emblems in the game. On Guild Halls, again this is an idea they are working on but it does raise a few design problems especially when  players start to own property. Having said that Guild Halls have not been ruled out.

This concludes our E3 coverage and what a great show it has been this year. Plenty of juicy tit-bits of info for both WoW and Warcraft III. We would like to thank all  of the Blizzard team members we collared over the three days including Kevin Jordan, Jason Hutchins, Mike Kern and of course Blizzard's PR man Beau Yarbrough for their time at the event. We hope everyone has enjoyed our coverage and don't forget to comment on anything in the forums.





Part Two
Human Mage - Female

Still a good while off until even the public beta testing starts and so there will be plenty of changes taking place with spells, skills and abilities within all races and classes.  However, what was displayed at E32002 we are detailing below and assuming this to alter somewhat.

There are very few spell indicators in place at the moment so when a character is affected you don't actually see them affect. Such is the case with Fire Shield, for which the casting animation can be seen on the right, although that animation is shared for all fire related skills right now so she could easily be casting Streak of Fire or Fire Blast for example.  When a character casts Fire Shield on herself or a party member that character wasn't surrounded in a fiery shield.  That will change soon enough.

There are cast delays between initiating a skill and it actually being cast.  They are different for all skills.  There are also delays between being able to recast, and this is to stop spamming.  It's in place in Diablo II so Blizzard fans will be used to it.

Kevin Jordan, Jason Hutchins, Mark Kern and many other very helpful Blizzard South bods helped piece together the skill situation as it stands now.

Human Mage

The human mage will be your classic spell casting class utilising skills such as faster cast type spells as well as pure magic.  The class won't be classically weak however, it will be able to hold it's own early on and not have to party in order to survive and progress to higher levels.
Spell Name 	Description
Numb 	Chills the target.
Frozen Armor 	Defensive icy armour increase.
Frost Plating 	Casting will increase her armour class.
Frost Blast 	Does cold damage to target.
Frozen Finger 	This will stun the character and has quite a delay before you can cast it again.  A large icy hand reaches down and taps a single finger onto the head of the foe. You can see the blue stun swirl in this image above the Gnoll's head.
Freeze 	Locks the target in place and does damage.
Frigid Limbs 	This causes the target to run and attack as you would in your nightmares, like trying to run in molasses.
Fire Shield 	This does damage to foe who attack her whilst she is under its influence.
Streak of Fire 	Shoots a bolt of fire that does a lot of damage.
Fiery Blast 	Does fire damage to target.
Scorching Blast 	Does fire damage to target.
Bolt of Fire 	A single fire bolt is hurled towards the target.

Orc Shaman

The Orc race will also have a spell caster in the form of Shaman.  However, these will inflict very much more direct damage than their human counterparts but still magic based.
Spell Name 	Description
Earthquake 	Not in the game right now but mentioned.  It will probably cause the ground within the area of affect to tremor and break up, inflicting physical damage.
Blood Lust 	This one was cast on his party members as well as himself and it increased the damage they inflicted.
Erupting Flame 	This is straight up fire damage.
Grappling Flame 	Another Fire Damage skill.
Entangling Roots 	Roots erupting from beneath and entwine around the limbs of the target preventing them from moving.
Immolation 	This one inflicts damage over time and you'll see small numbers drift away from the target's head indicating how many hit points they are losing. 
Icy Prison 	This encases the target in an icy prison, it does not inflict damage, just holds them in place.
Ancestral Healing 	This can be cast on the Orc Shaman himself as well as his party members and will heal. He can not cast it when he's under attack so it doesn't look to be something that can heal while you are fighting, rather after a battle it's useful to recoup hit points.
Lightning Shield 	Defensive armour increase.
Bark Skin 	An amour rating increase for a duration.

Tauren Warrior
Combat Skill 	Description
Impale 	This will cause the target to bleed and suffer damage over time. Spurts of blood indicate when he takes more damage.
Dismember 	This is the standard pole arm damage enhancing effect.

Orc Warrior
Spell Name 	Description
Erupting Flame 	This is straight up fire damage.
Immolation 	This one inflicts damage over time and you'll see small numbers drift away from the target's head indicating how many hit points they are losing. 
Ancestral Healing 	This can be cast on the Orc Warrior himself as well as his party members and will heal. He can not cast it when he's under attack so it doesn't look to be something that can heal while you are fighting, rather after a battle it's useful to recoup hit points.
Grasping Roots 	Causes thick roots to erupt from the ground beneath the target holding it in place for a duration.
Ice Prison 	Encases the target in an icy cocoon.
Blood Lust 	This one was cast on his party members as well as himself and it increased the damage they inflicted.
Lightning Shield 	Defensive armour increase.
Rock Skin 	Increases the armour rating of the warrior for a duration

Human Warrior
Combat Skill 	Description
Slice and Dice 	Provides additional damage to attack. 
Defend 	The name familiar to humans in Warcraft III.  This will improve the armour rating.






E3 2002 was the first time World of Warcraft had been shown en-mass Stateside. The game was unveiled last year surrounded by much hype at ECTS in London where we were on hand to see Bill Roper's presentation. (see previous article).  Eight months on and we're here to see what's new.

It was an early start, 7AM to make it down for the first appointment of the show but we were slavering at the thought of seeing WOW in action once again.  Once we'd made it past the security bag search it was a mad rush up stairs, elbowing like tourists through the crowds to Vivendi's corner.  As you can see from our photos familiar imagery decked Blizzard's domain (suitably large portion it was too), large Warcraft standards flanked the clearways through the monitor stacks.  They must be a new addition as we've never seen those at a show before.

It was pretty quiet at this time as we were one of the first on the stand.  We located Beau Yarborough, PR man, who gave us a couple of press packs and handed us over to our WoW demo host, programmer Mark Kern.

As many of you already knew from the press release Blizzard were showing a new race, the Dwarves and both a female and male dwarf character were shown on the character selection screen. The female dwarf wasn't the prettiest at the ball but she looked as if she could handle herself. 

And so it Begins

The demo kicked off with a level one Human warrior being selected.  The human starting area is suitable for that of a new character with little skill or equipment and populated sufficiently to allow the new character to learn some skill.  Other races will have a similar set up.  The warrior has certain skills he can use in combat, all characters do of course, but in order to not have warriors mindlessly bashing their opponents uga-uga style, they have combat skills to use, indeed they will have to use these if they wish to advance.  One skill he has is Defend which shares (at this time) the same icon has the Human footman's in Warcraft III but it increases the Warriors' overall armour class.

Character Class

All character classes have a set of core abilities and use a hybrid leveling and skill system.  As you attain new levels the cap rises on the abilities you can use so the more you use these abilities the better they become, up to the cap for your level.  The reasoning is that Blizzard didn't want players to be able to mess up their characters by choosing wrong abilities and skills.  This way ensures that you are a competent mage or warrior because you have the core skills necessary to be such.  There is also a set of secondary skills where players can focus on different areas such as alchemy, lock picking or first aid so there is further customisation.  Even though you have chosen your secondary skills you are not locked in them.  It's a fact that players do make bad choices when developing characters and this will allow you to change your mind to a certain degree, taking what you have learnt from one skill and applying it to another.  The change won't be instantaneous but if you feel you've made a bad choice there is an option to reshape your character.  More details on this weren't available.

Control

Game controlling has not changed since September.  You will be able to use the arrow keys or the standard A, W and D keys but those are configurable.  There is full mouse look capabilities also, controlling the camera view with the mouse and also the mouse wheel which can zoom you into third person or further still into first person perspective if you prefer.  Objects will turn transparent if you move into something or something of importance is in front of your character and you are in third person view (ala Lara Croft).  For example if your character is just in front of a wall, theoretically you're inside the wall as your view is just behind them, but in WoW it will turn transparent.  Similarly if an NPC comes into view directly in front of your character, your character will turn transparent so that you can see him or her.  Your mouse icon will also change to reflect that you can interact with that NPC. It's all very slick.

Interface

The onscreen interface has been made as intuitive as possible while remaining discrete.  Blizzard want to keep the screen as uncluttered as possible.  However the small health and energy indicators and character name top left and server time and mini map on the right are enough to keep you informed of what's what on the fly. Because WoW is not level based a new player could find it intimidating to find themselves in the middle of this huge world with no restrictions on where they can go and of course which way to head out. The Mini map gives them some bearings, grounds them, allows them to see small outposts or cities and NPCs and gives a sense of structure round about them.  Of course seasoned players who don't give a stuff about charging around the place like a big thing will find it of use too.

Action slots at the bottom left for your capabilities (skills/combat moves) and a backpack can expand on the bottom right.  Players can move things from their backpacks to their 'Action Slots' on the left to use during combat.  Things can stack in your backpack, such as cheese and you can bring over a slice of cheese, removing it from the stack to consume and regain some hit points mid battle.  Health and Energy recoup over time but food (Hit Points) and drink, as in ale, (Energy) will replenish the reservoirs that much quicker.

Equipment

Equipment is handled through a paper doll interface.  There are the primary and secondary slots.  Primary are for your most useful things and secondary for things you might not be accessing so often but still wish to keep on hand.  As your character progresses and utilises better equipment your characters model will change to reflect this.  Our warrior stayed in the basic vest and pants with a sword.  There will be character and race specific items, proficiencies will determine which armour and weapons they can utilise. More than that wasn't being discussed.

Interiors

On show for the first time were the buildings and interiors.  Mark took us into Northshire Abbey.  We were zoomed down into third person mode and saw the contact sensitive cursor in action as our warrior came between our view and an NPC, he duly turned transparent and our cursor changed to show what would happen if we were to right click on the character. In this case talk to him, as opposed to battering him.  We right clicked and the vender interface opened.  What he had on offer was displayed with an image, price and the name of the item, so you will not need to hover over everything individually to see what's what.  If the item has more stats, other than it's name, hovering will drop down a display of all those.

We went further into the Abbey and up into the Bell tower.  The corridors and stairways were well served by light mapping as well as dynamic lighting so the wall lanterns were casting light not just picking up values from a light map.  Back down the Bell Tower by taking a short cut jumping about three stories, suffering no damage. Fall damage isn't in at this time, it may be in the future of course but it hasn't been decided.

Combat

We mentioned the contact sensitive cursor above and as well as benign indicators as with talking to an NPC it will also change to reflect attack possibilities.  If your character is out of range of a target it shows you can attack but has a red circle and line through it.  Left clicking on the target will bring up their level and stats so you can decided whether to attack or not.  You can still mouse over other creatures while this other creature is selected.  So you can fight one creature while casting a spell on another.

Wow also has auto move to attack.  So as we right clicked on a target our warrior proceeded to march up to the target and attack. You can vary your attack as necessary by using a combat ability from the Action Slots bottom left of the screen.  In this case Mark used Slice and Dice which increased the amount of damage he inflicted.  Some creatures you come across won't be rich pickings. Instead of displaying the target's level it could show a skull which indicates the foe is a significantly higher level than yourself and it probably wouldn't be deemed the 'Strategic move of the Century' to offer him outside at this point.

We asked whether a creatures resistances would be displayed in this way but our resistances work hasn't been discussed yet let alone implemented.

We left Elwyn Forest to take in our level 15 Mage.  On in, into Westfall, previously a lush farmland but no more, not since falling into decay. Now it serves as home to bands of opportunistic Thieves.  Grrrr.  A clear path in front of us would actually have led our Mage back into Elwynn Forest if we were to follow it. Mages a little stronger than you usually get in these sorts of games.  This should please those who don't have a lot of time to locate a party to play with or just choose to play by themselves.  Often Mages are quite hard going to start with and being a little tougher means they'll have a broader appeal. He displayed his Fire Shield and Frozen Armor defensive skills and also a Fire bolt on a couple of critters. There was also talk of a rooting skill but unfortunately we didn't see that in action.

On Transport

Other than getting about the world on foot Blizzard are interested in vehicles in general, they are part of the Warcraft universe after all.  There will certainly be some form of  ''fixed transport" (waypoints?) but as for user-controlled (mounts, zeppelins) that is not being revealed.

PvP & Battle.Net

We asked, for fans of dueling, what was in the pipeline for Player Versus Player combat and were told there will not be a PvP switch.  Specifics are a way off at this time but it will be something far more "organic" than that.  Many things further information wasn't available because of the very competitive nature of the MMORPG market. Understandable.  Such as changes or developments to Battle.net. All they could say is that it will be based on a new technology, same goes for specifics on after sales development.  There will be teams working on maintaining the world, adding new quests and items, dealing with naughty tinkers messing with things they shouldn't be but anything more specific they will probably remain tight-lipped on, even much further down the production road.

We'll be heading back tomorrow and if you have any further questions please add them in this thread.

NOTE: Don't ask specifics (What are the starting stats for characters etc) we wont get told this info or anything too vague such as findiout about items.








Date : 23 August 2003
WorldofWar.net: 	What was your role in creating Warcraft, The Roleplaying Game?

Mike Johnstone:
	

I served as the editor for the core book, meaning I came in at the end, after all the hard work of designing the game was already done. Editing, though, sometimes can become sort of like a "final review" stage, trying to ensure consistency and balance for a book as a whole, which periodically leads to some creative involvement. So, I had the chance to rework and create a couple of feats in the core book - but mostly, I was responsible for just the editing.

For the upcoming release, Manual of Monsters, I wore both editing and final development hats, the latter primarily because we needed to update the book to the new 3.5 rules for Dungeons & Dragons.

Now, I have assumed the role of developer for the line, beginning with the Alliance & Horde Compendium, the third scheduled release.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	How did the creating a Warcraft Role Playing Game become Sword and Sorcery's project?

Mike Johnstone:
	

I was not involved in the early stages of the product, so this information lies outside my purview. Thankfully, though, I can turn to Andrew Bates, Managing Editor at Sword & Sorcery, for help. Here's what he wrote to me on this question:

    "Wizards of the Coast had the Warcraft RPG license for some time. For reasons I'm not privy to, the project went on hold. We weren't sure we wanted to take on another computer game license since we already had EverQuest, but we were curious as to the general status of the license. Blizzard was enthusiastic about us taking it on and Wizards was willing to hand it off, so the Warcraft RPG license came into Sword & Sorcery's hands after a fair bit of negotiating."

 

WorldofWar.net:
	Can you explain the process that was followed to create the D20 version of Warcraft?

Mike Johnstone:
	

Again, because I was not part of the initial design and development of Warcraft, I asked Andrew Bates to field this question. He wrote to me:

    "In the simplest terms, it was a matter of matching the spirit and mood of the Warcraft computer games with the game mechanics of d20. The folks at Blizzard - Chris Metzen and Bob Fitch in particular - offered a great deal of ideas and input along these lines. We wanted it accessible to both groups, which meant not changing vast swaths of d20 rules just because we could. We looked at each issue in terms of 'How can this fit as seamlessly as possible with d20 while retaining the core feel of Warcraft?' So while some things are mechanically different from the computer games - a d20 spell memorization system rather than a mana-usage spell system - we felt that the way they relate in terms of an RPG sustain the unique feel of Warcraft."

From what I know, E. Deirdre Brooks, the developer for the Warcraft RPG core book, wanted to create a viable roleplaying game campaign world as opposed to a strict emulation of the Warcraft computer games, thus entailing certain design decisions, such as the choice of the d20 spell memorization system mentioned by Andrew. These sorts of design considerations show up, for instance, in some unit abilities from the RTS becoming feats and some becoming spells and some becoming class abilities in the RPG. The needs and feel of an RPG, particularly D&D;/d20, quite often lean toward accessibility and options for all races and character classes. In the Warcraft RPG, then, a balance was required between getting in all the cool stuff from the computer game and ensuring that players could create the characters they wanted without a lot of restrictions. Thus, for example, the Death Knight's "death coil" ability in Warcraft III became a spell in the Warcraft RPG, available to any class able to access and cast it.

Many people may not always agree that these design decisions accurately reflect the Warcraft game, but they were made with a lot of care for and attention to developing the setting as one that incorporated the d20 rules and firmly established that "Warcraft" feel - and having Bob Fitch and Chris Metzen from Blizzard lending assistance throughout the process certainly helped!
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What surprised you the most about Blizzard's involvement in this process?

Mike Johnstone:
	

That they were hardcore Dungeons & Dragons gamers! (I guess, though, that this should be obvious in the Warcraft games themselves, which, in some ways, are a loving homage to D&D.;)

Bob and Chris's enthusiasm for the line is infectious, really, which makes the RPG as a whole that much better. Bob is a numbers guy, so he offers a lot of excellent insight on game balance for the rules in areas such as core classes, prestige classes, feats, spells, and monsters. Chris is the setting/story guy, so he keeps us on the right path in terms of getting the details correct for elements such as history, geography, and culture - in a way, he's the guiding vision behind the setting itself.

Oh, and Samwise Didier's art rocks! But I guess everyone knew that already …. :-)
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What aspect of the Warcraft Mythos do you find most compelling?

Mike Johnstone:
	

In terms of the RPG, the role of the Burning Legion intrigues me the most with regard to how its actions impact pretty much everything that happens on Azeroth. "Otherworldly invaders" are not easy to do in fantasy, I think, perhaps because the concept lends itself more to science fiction, but the Burning Legion constitutes not only a significant returning villain with a lot of influence upon Azeroth's history but a well developed society with its own character and motivations (dastardly though they may be). Arthas's corruption by the Legion - and the Lich King - makes for the sort of great, archetypal story that defines a setting.

In general, I'm attracted to the familiarity of the mythos and the changes and additions to it made by the folks at Blizzard. You have all the stuff of fantasy that you know so well (dwarves, elves, magic, demons, good vs. evil, dragons, knights, wizards, and so on). Yet you also encounter a lot of stuff that challenges the familiar tropes of fantasy - flying machines, submarines, mortar teams, rifles, 7-foot tall purple-skinned elves with very long ears, orcs as a shamanistic culture, and more. Everything works together, maybe because Warcraft both relies on the standard elements of fantasy and takes some inventive, bold steps to stretch fantasy in new ways. Most of all, everything exudes a sense of fun. Gotta like that.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What aspect of converting the Warcraft real time strategy game to a pen and paper game was the most challenging?

Mike Johnstone:
	

Again, I was not involved in the initial design of the RPG, but I can speak from experience in editing the core book and in the development of subsequent titles.

From my perspective, the most challenging aspect might be what I mentioned earlier: finding the balance between including all the cool stuff from the RTS game(s) while also making a viable RPG campaign setting. On the one hand, the RPG needs to satisfy the vision of Warcraft established by Blizzard - such as incorporating the key themes and the atmosphere of the world as presented in the RTS game, along with units/races and their abilities. On the other hand, we must consider the themes, atmosphere, and rules of D&D;/d20, finding how to fit the RTS elements in the best, smoothest, and most logical ways possible.

Warcraft, of course, lends itself very well to a conversion into D&D;/d20 terms, with heroes (i.e., classes and prestige classes), spells and powers, abilities (i.e., Strength, Agility), magic items, monsters (ghouls, skeletons, demons), races (dwarves, gnomes, elves, humans, goblins, orcs). The challenge involves having it all make sense for D&D;/d20. What should be a feat? What should be a spell? What should be a class ability? How many Hit Dice would you give a pit lord? How do you create a runeblade?

The setting itself is almost easy to translate into a pen-and-paper game, as the epic feel and sweep of the Warcraft history pretty much embodies the high fantasy leanings of D&D.; It's a great world in which to adventure, whether you want to recreate events from the computer games or (re)shape the world as you see fit. The mechanical, game rule side of things presents the tougher - though certainly no less enjoyable - task.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Who's decision was it to pull the Bard and Monk classes from Warcraft, The Roleplaying Game? (Blizzard's, Wizards of the Coast's, or Sword and Sorcery's)

Mike Johnstone:
	

Once again, I need Andrew Bates to step in. He wrote to me on this issue:

    "All final design decisions have come from Blizzard. As I said, they've worked very closely with us each step of the way. The folks at Blizzard quite reasonably pointed out that bards and monks don't exist within the context of the Warcraft setting. (Similarly, divine magic and worship is distinct enough from standard d20 that different divine spellcaster classes were called for.) As with all other aspects of the game, of course, players are welcome to change details to suit themselves."

 

WorldofWar.net:
	There is a section of the book that details the possibility of a half Night Elf. Since, as it's mentioned in the book, it's an impossibility based on race exposure, why include the rules for it?

Mike Johnstone:
	

Well, to be fair, the sidebar in Chapter Two of the core book states that human and night elf unions at the moment are unlikely because the two races need more contact with each other for this to happen. Time will tell, though …. :-)

Likely the main reason this information found its way into the core book involves the possibility that someone, somewhere would either ask about the matter or just go ahead and make up such a character anyway. Having a half-night elf is kind of cool, I guess - so the designers probably did not want to disallow or ignore the option, only give it more of a firmer context within the setting.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Will players of the computer games find these pen and paper rules accessible enough for a new role player?

Mike Johnstone:
	

This is a good question, actually.

To play the "full" version of the RPG, you will need the Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook, Revised Edition, along with the Warcraft RPG core book. The material in the Warcraft core book relies and builds upon the rules described in the PHB - i.e., it assumes that you have the PHB, particularly for matters such as level advancement, combat rules, class descriptions (for barbarians, fighters, rogues, sorcerers, and wizards), D&D;/d20 magic rules, spell descriptions, and so forth. Really, the PHB is the place to start for learning the rules. The Warcraft RPG presents an extension of those rules tailored to fit a specific campaign setting.

D&D; can be a lot to take in if one is coming to roleplaying games for the first time. Getting into a game with an experienced player or two will help immensely in learning the rules for and the feel of D&D.; Still, one's Warcraft experience most certainly forms a good introduction to the core elements of D&D;: dwarves, elves, humans, orcs; fighters/warriors, clerics/priests, archers/rangers; Strength and Agility; hit points; defense, attack, and damage ratings; magic items; spells; gaining levels/power; and so forth. I bet that after a couple of hours playing D&D;, someone just coming to pen-and-paper gaming for the first time will pick up the basics pretty quickly.

The short answer, then? Maybe not too accessible, if one is new to RPGs.

Getting up to speed, though, shouldn't be all that difficult … and things will really become fun once a new player sees all the options available for the different kinds of characters and the many sorts of stories and scenarios that can be explored.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	As you were playtesting the game, what was your favorite character to play and why?

Mike Johnstone:
	

Well, by the time editing rolls around, the playtesting's been done

If I was getting involved in a Warcraft RPG campaign (say, today), however, I'd probably roll up a tauren scout with a view to becoming a hunter, tracking down centaur and quilboar and helping my race resettle Mulgore … or a high elf wizard, struggling with magic addiction in an effort to serve the Alliance and bring peace to Kalimdor. Maybe the most intriguing party to try would be one affiliated with the Horde - an orc or two, a tauren, maybe a goblin: not the norm for D&D;, but definitely in the Warcraft spirit!
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What should we be looking forward to the most in the Alliance & Horde Compendium coming out in December?

Mike Johnstone:
	

Two parts, probably: first, the new playable PC races (Wildhammer dwarves, blood elves, furbolgs, gnomes, naga, pandaren, and jungle trolls), which fill out the options for players quite nicely; second, rules for mass combat.

We use the mass combat rules in Cry Havoc, written by Skip Williams and published by Malhavoc Press, focusing on unit- or skirmish-level fights and including material on magic for the battlefield. So, along with the core book, Manual of Monsters, and Alliance & Horde Compendium, you can pretty much get the full experience of the computer games in the RPG. I'm really eager to start hearing about battles that folks put together for their campaigns.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Here's the last one to make all of the fans drool. Did you get to play the World of Warcraft game?

Mike Johnstone:
	

Naw, not yet. Sorry!

You know, though, I should discuss this matter with the Blizzard guys. I mean, it would all be strictly for research purposes, of course …. ;-)
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Thanks for the interview Mike! We are all looking forward to the Manual of Monsters soon and the Alliance & Horde Compendium in December from Sword and Sorcery.

Mike Johnstone:
	

If anyone has more questions or comments about the Warcraft RPG, they're welcome to email me (mikejohnstone@fierydragon.com) and/or drop by the official discussion forum, accessed through the Sword & Sorcery site (www.swordsorcery.com).

Thanks for the great questions, John: they were a pleasure to answer!





Introduction

This is the first fansite chat with the development team since the game was announced discussing World Of Warcraft. 

Dev Team : Hello everyone. Today we are going to be fielding general questions and talking about a few new features. On the table today are skills. mounts, instancing, combat any anything else you want to discuss. So in brief our skill system is comprised of class skills and secondary skills. 

Class skills are abilities we consider integral to who a character is. For example, core to a Warrior is the ability to use swords, maces, axes, and such. These skills are developed in two ways: by leveling and through usage. Your level determines your potential and then usage determines your actual proficiency.

As for secondary skills, they are more general purpose and will allow players to uniquely flavor their characters. Now for some questions

Q: Is it possible to establish guilds in WoW with your own guild halls, emblems and such?

Dev Team : Absolutely. Socializing is a huge part of this type of game and a large part of that revolves around the creation of guilds. Guild members will be able to uniquely identify themselves through the use of Guild Tabards. These Tabards are worn over your armor and through the use of color and emblem will uniquely identify guilds and their members. As for guild houses... player housing is in the plan and guild houses are a part of that.

    WorldofWar.Net : As of E3 this year support for Guilds was still very much on the agenda and it's encouraging to see it's still on the cards. Guild houses were eagerly anticipated in Diablo II and there was quite widespread disappointment when it was finally announced they would not make the final cut.

Q: Will the skills be in a skill tree, such as in Diablo II?

Nope, no skill trees... Instead, spread across the world will be various skill trainers. Many skills will have prerequisite skills or minimum levels, but there is no skill tree as such.

Q: Will any spells from the Warcraft or Diablo series be carried into WoW?

Dev Team : Oh ya... many, many of the spells from the WarCraft series will be available in World of Warcraft.

    WorldofWar.Net : Bloodlust, Lightning Shield have been named and there has also been numerous fire and cold based skills identified although names are likely to change.

Q: Are there any plans to make guilds more dynamic, or easier to govern?

Dev Team : Hmmmmm. Not sure what you mean by more dynamic, but I'll throw a few more details to see if this helps. We are planning web site support for listing key stats of the various guilds and we are planning fairly extensive Guild Master and Guild Officer commands for viewing and managing membership... whether members are online or not. :).

    WorldofWar.Net : Nothing has really been mentioned about guild management support previously but this route seems logical giving Guild leaders real control over their group.

Q: Will the setting of WoW, for example, Azeroth, Kalimdor, etc., be the same as Warcaraft III?

Dev Team : Yes, the world is largely based on the known geography of WarCraft. From Khaz Modan to Kalimdor, from Azeroth to Lordaeron, you'll be able to live in the world you are familiar with.

    WorldofWar.Net : Areas already revealed can be seen in our Screenshot Gallery here. The only area announced not yet shown in a screenshot is Kalimdor.

Q: Will quests provide adequate experience and/or items that will substitute for combat?

Dev Team : This is a great question. We view questing as an area that MMORPGs have only begun to develop. So the direct answer to the question is: Yes, we are planning a vast number of quests, that provide meaningful amounts of experience and lots of good loot. We are planning a Quest Log that will track currently assigned quests and one of our goals is that the log is pretty much never empty.

Q: Can you discuss the monster AI?

Dev Team : Well, this is still in flux but we can mention a few things. We are planning a higher level, group AI that allows the leader of a group of monsters to direct the group's behavior. For example, a group of Gnolls, lead by a Taskmaster, might decide to sic a couple of Brutes on your Warrior and a Brute on your healer and a fourth on your Mage.

    WorldofWar.Net : AI is something that is always hard to get right but this approach sounds interesting and should add variety to the combat and also means you will have to be on your toes during a bout.

Q: Will there be mounts in the game, and if so, will they be unique to the races?

Dev Team: Good question. Yes, we are planning on a variety of mounts. For example, we have Humans riding around on Horses and Orcs on Wolves. Also, in some rare cases, player's who choose to specialize in riding will be able to ride mounts normally reserved for other races. Just to be explicit, mounts will be player controlled and will be a great way for mid to high level characters to travel the world.

    WorldofWar.Net : Up until now this had been one aspect that was something they were 'looking into' and confirmation will be well received.

Q: How will you avoid player camping and kill stealing?

Dev Team : This is one of the big problems of MMORPGs today. Here's our plan: Many of the areas of our world are instanced meaning that you and your friends can enter an instance that is essentially a private copy of the section of the world. Some player collision is good. It gives people an opportunity to make new friends. The key is that if you get to a location and find it 'camped' you always have somewhere to go. Private instances guarantee there will always be somewhere for you to hunt in peace.

Q: How does combat work?

Dev Team: Hmm let's start by discussing what it is not. It is not a 'click-fest' or a 'potion-fest'. These are questions we see frequently so we want to clarify that. Players will initiate combat with a simple click on a creature then go into combat mode. While in combat mode, the character automatically continues swinging at the target creature. Then to mix things up, the player will get to time a host of special moves and of course magical spells. As for potions they do exist in our game and are more abundant than in most MMORPGs. We think consumable items are interesting when properly balanced.

    WorldofWar.Net : Looks like your mouse fingers are safe:) While there is nothing really new here that hasn't already been demoed at previous trade shows this description  gives a good overview of what to expect.

Q:  How is death handled in the game?

Dev Team: The trick with death is to make it painful enough so that player's respect the world but not so painful that is is overly frustrating.. We want people to explore and we want people to be heroic. When you die you will resurrect at your last bind site with all your items intact. There will be some sort of penalty but we haven't settled on exactly what that will be just yet.

    WorldofWar.Net: Bind points and death were mentioned at the first showing at ECTS and it still looks like the penalties are still up in the air. This is going to be tough to decide, but the loss of XP is the obvious choice. Whether Blizzard go down that route remains to be seen.

Q: Can we discuss multi-user spells.

Dev Team:  Ah, we mentioned those a long time ago but haven't really discussed them recently. We call multi-user spells ' Rituals'. The idea here is that a group of casters would need to get together to cast a Rituals. We're not prepared just yet to discuss the specifics of what these will do, but rest assured they're mighty nice.

    WorldofWar.Net : It's a shame no more details on this were forthcoming. It's been a hot topic since it was mentioned at the E3. We're eager to see how Blizzard pull this off.

Q: Will there be class-specific items in the game?

Dev Team:  Yes

Q:  Will there be ranged weapons and can Dwarves us guns.

Dev Team:  Yes we have bows, crossbows and....guns. Warcraft just wouldn't be Warcraft without Dwarves running around shooting stuff.

    WorldofWar.Net :The question of firearms has finally been confirmed. Again this still raises a few questions such as visibility of a shot, can you evade gunfire easily, range etc etc. 

Q:  When will we hear from Brann again?

Dev Team: Well, Brann has gone missing in fact... and one of the quests in the game will be to discover what happened to him.

    WorldofWar.Net : Last time we saw Brann he was hot footing it from a bunch of headhunters in Stranglethorn.

Q: How large is the party size for players?

Dev Team:  The current party size is 5. This allows us to balance the game in such a way that every member of the party is important. beyond the standard group we have the ability to link groups for some super-groups. These super groups will allow players to tackle tougher monsters, split XP, split loot and generally have a good time raiding together.

    WorldofWar.Net : Super-groups are a very nice idea but how they fit into the gameplay has not really been explained. For example will there be specific super-group quests? At what point can you join groups? How will sharing of loot actually work? No doubt we'll here more about this in the future.

Q: Is there a way to finish the game, how long can we play?

Dev Team: Well in fact there is no real way to finish the game? We will have storylines that player's can follow through to completion but the world is such a giant toy that there will always be hundreds of things to do. On top of that, our live team will continually add new quests , new items and new lands to explore, so the game really never does finish.






Date : 20 August 2002
Author: MagickHat

The August Issue of Computer Games Magazine carried a two page preview of World of Warcraft. Due to copyright laws we can not post scans of this article but MagickHat who was able to pick up a copy put pen to paper and set about describing what each new screenshot displayed.  

Picture One: This one features the corpse looting process. The names of all types of characters float above their in-game models; it seems yellow is the standard for player characters, green for NPC vendors, and red for monsters/creeps, or their corpses.

The slain Kobold Vermin in this picture has its name displayed in red above. While looting the corpse, a popup window is created with the corpse's name and facial image across the title bar, and a column of seven available slots providing space for the name of a particular item (and the amount of it, in the case of gold or other monetary units), and a graphic icon just to the left. This Kobold carried 5 Copper and a Minor Healing Potion, taking up the top two slots. The information about a monster shown at the top of the screen (next to your hero's information) lingers after you kill and/or as you loot it, and the same red color resides in the background of the little window with the Kobold Vermin's name, as well as behind the little number just to the upper right of its facial image. This number represents the foe's level. A vendor in another shot features a little skull icon in this space, which indicates the creature is significantly higher level than yourself. The mana bar of the Vermin remains unchanged here, though the red lifeline has been replaced with the word "Dead" inside the bar.

Picture Two: Just having made a deal with an NPC merchant, and equipping the purchased necklace. As described above, the vendor, Blasthelm the Smith, has life/mana information at the top of the screen, and his name is displayed in green just over his head as well, with the additional label of "Armorsmith" placed just below in defining brackets. The hero appears to be tooling with his paper doll window, and its general look has drastically changed from what I last saw of it in the image released in Computer Gaming World last year.

The most noticeable difference is the new division between primary and secondary equipment; rather than a small grid representing every equippable area of a hero, we now see a window with Primary and Secondary tabs along the bottom, and this particular shot displays it with the secondary tab selected. The hero's model with all visible equipment is still shown over most of it, now over a solid black backdrop as opposed to a translucent one. There is additional space to the left of and below your model for the equippable slots, now very tiny, even squares, unlike the larger rectangular slots from before. Moving down on the left, from the top, are spots representing the neck (labeled by popup tooltips when moused over, which is being done here), secondary body armor, wrists, and two rings/fingers. Underneath, to the right of the second finger slot, are four trinkets. Other than the neck, I get all these labels by matching the graphic in each slot to what was displayed in the paper doll window in the CGW picture, as though smaller, they are primarily the same.

Lastly, the two lower corners of the image of the model itself carry some sort of little icon which I can only speculate rotates the model around, or perhaps jumps back and forth from the primary and secondary windows. The upper right corner of the window has a little red X to presumably close it; all of the new windows seem to feature this, as well as the corpse loot and shopping interfaces.

Picture Three: This is the big one taking up most of the second page of the preview, and reveals the general shopping experience. A vendor named Donal is being dealt with here, and both his name and facial image are displayed at the top of the shopping window that occupies most of the screen. The interface here is very similar to that of the corpse's loot, though twice as wide and with an extra row to provide a total of 16 available slots for merchandise. The format for each item is comparable to those picked off the slain monster as well; the name in the text box, and a small picture just to the left. In addition, the price of the item is listed just under the name, showing graphical representation of each of the monetary denominations and the amount required. All of the items for sale in the image don't go beyond the realm of silver and copper, and feature various leather wear. A rather sizey tooltip is displayed upon mousing over any of the items on sale, which reports the items name again, its level (it was known items in WoW would have levels, and this seems to be the first indication that the game will be quite obvious about it, not hiding the information), the part of the body it is equipped to (if any), the material of the item (a Rough Leather Vest is being inspected here, and so it is simply classified as Leather), and the benefit it provides, the selected Vest granting 12 Armor when equipped. Some of the items shown in this image had names displayed in red text, though they were affordable by the shopping character; perhaps they were unequippable.

At the bottom of the shopping window lies a small panel displaying your character's funds, in an identical format to the prices of the items above; it appears there are only three monetary denominations in the game (gold, silver, copper), as the hero here has zero gold anyway, indicating there are no further forms of money hidden.

Just to the left of this panel is one additional slot for fitting an item; perhaps this is where you drag an item you are interested in purchasing, or selling. Your hero's backpack window is also revealed in this shot, and like the paper doll interface, it has received a good facelift. Now it's a very simple panel with a background resembling a wooden texture, and a 4x4 grid of open slots for storage. You might note this is four more spaces than the last backpack seemed to allow for. Along the bottom is a small strip showing the money you carry, so any funds on your person do not take up space for real items. There is a red X icon for closing the window in the upper right corner, as there is on the shopping window.

You might say WoW is starting to become the World of Windows. There are a few other new bits I noticed throughout all of the images. The interface design overall seems to have undergone some significant changes, with a particular synergy to Warcraft III. All of the tooltips bear the same gold bolder and translucent background as those in WCIII, and the icons for all items, no matter the context, have been shrunken into even squares and even share some of the artwork of WCIII, such as a set of Patched Robes directly resembling the Robe of the Magi. Placeholders, or an intentional attempt at a sense of association? The chat window also seems to have lost its window definition entirely, and in all three shots a conversation is displayed in white text right at the bottom center of the screen, right over the terrain itself. Of course this could just be an option as opposed to a heavy interface change. The life/mana profiles at the top, minimap, quick key grid and icons for paper doll and backpack all remain in the same places on the screen as before, and are unchanged graphically.

MagickHat 





One of the primary game architects for Blizzard, Rob Pardo, was active on some of the Blizzard boards today. The main focus of his posts where about the philosophy that Blizzard was taking towards the higher level content and if and when players should be forced to group to progress in levels. Some interesting tidbits.

Date : 15 June 2003

Here is Rob Pardo's first post:

    First off, we have yet to release any details on the high-end game for WOW, so I can't go into any specific details. Since many people that work here have participated in the EQ and DAOC high end games, you can probably expect us to do some cool stuff. We are also well aware of the many pit falls with raid content and pvp sieging, etc.

    One of the big problems with some of the current MMORPGs is how difficult it is to play for a casual player. We want even casual players to be able to start up and immediately enjoy the game. This does not mean that they will level as fast as the hard core player, nor attain the same items as quickly.

    Let me give a more specific example. In EQ, once you get into the 30ish level range it starts to become rather difficult to get into a group. It would not be uncommon to spend 2-3 hours online before you were in a good experience group. Once you managed to get into this group, you would generally want to spend 2-3 more hours, just so all your time waiting was worth it. The average gamer does not want to spend 4-6 hours online just to meaningfully advance. We really want to both make it easier to get into groups and allow people to advance without having a group.

    Solo players will be able to play the game and have fun, but we certainly will encourage people to group up. Groups can adventure in areas that solo players cannot.

    -Rob

Here we see again Blizzard's commitment to make the game accessible to the casual gamer. Rob echoes some of the comments Bill Roper made in his European Press Tour a few months back. At that time Bill Roper was telling the press that Blizzard wanted a game that was easily accessible, where players would feel like heroic from day one. No hard to understand commands, an intuitive interface, and no killer bunnies.

We also get some comments about how grouping will work in World of Warcraft by inference. Obviously you can't have the casual player looking for 2-3 hours to group if you are going to be successful with that audience. So instead, Blizzard is taking a dual track with this. First, make it easier to group, second; make it easier to solo. Rob spends some time to give a particular example to both illustrate his point and make the point that they have spend a lot of time playing and analyzing the entire genre.

    No, I didn't say you would be forced to team up. We want people with different play styles to enjoy playing the game in different ways. Some people like to solo, some like to group, some like to raid in a guild, etc.

    Now...there will be areas that are too dangerous for solo players, so if you feel like this "forces" you to group, then I'm not sure what to tell you. Many other MMORPGs forces you to group because you cannot advance in the game any longer without grouping; we don't plan to do this.

    The idea of a MMORPGs (at least in our opinion) is to provide a huge game world that accommodates many different play styles. Solo play, group player, PvE, PvP, Tradeskills, etc. We wish to make as many of them viable throughout the game as possible.

    -Rob

Rob has to restate his point here; the forum misses the inference. It is a nice confirmation of the inference however.

    I agree with your definition of the casual player, but I disagree with this statement: [Soloing is not fun.]

    For example, Diablo 2 is really all about soloing. Most people solo and it has been hugely successful with the casual player audience. If you changed your statement to "Soloing in MMORPG X is not fun", then I would probably agree with you.

    Hardcore players generally do not want casual players in their group. They do not think, nor play the game in the same way. Being in a bad group is often as much because of social dynamics as it is game mechanics.

    And to respond to some of the other posts.

    Yes, we are aware of class dependency issues from other games and hope to find a happy medium. We will try to avoid any single class that is critical to group success as well as classes that are useless in groups.

    Also, when I stated that groups could go places where solo players could not, I was talking about players of the same level. There will not be arbitrary restrictions on areas.

    -Rob

What we see in all three of these posts is the core tenet of Blizzard's game philosophy. We heard it in the European Press Tour, we see it in the Blizzard Insiders, and we heard it at E3.

    "The real trick is making it easy to learn, but difficult to master - that's a mantra you hear a lot around Blizzard." -Producer Shane Dabiri, Blizzard Insider

What that means is that Blizzard is looking to not only make the casual gamers happy, as evidenced by Rob's posts. They are looking to make everyone happy. The people who like to solo, the people who like to group, the people who like to power level and the people who like to socialize. It's a tall order, but from a company that has a proven track record of making it happen.






Date : 31 July 2003

So far, we only have some cursory information on what we know about character development. We have some good information brought back from Elly and Rush at E3 in the interfaces and character selection sections, but one of the core questions remains unanswered. Is it possible to become a legendary hero class?

When Bill Roper had been on his European press tour, he was quick to point out that Blizzard wanted a MMORPG where the player felt legendary and heroic from the first day. There was to be no training for warrior by killing bunnies. Blizzard wanted each player to feel as if they were heroic right at the first quest. What better way to encourage players to feel heroic than to allow them to unlock the legendary hero classes of Warcraft III. We already know that we will be seeing some familiar faces in World of Warcraft. How much of a disappointment would it be to see the Tyrande Whisperwind as a Hunter instead of as a Priestess of the Moon?

So what is a legendary hero class? In the latest iteration of the Warcraft Universe, Blizzard took the Hero unit from Warcraft II and Starcraft and developed it more fully. Now it was possible to build a limited amount of "super" units. Complete with inventory, level-ups, and abilities that grew as the game progressed, these "super" units were, in effect, an impact of the original Warcraft III vision of a Role-Playing Strategy Game.

The question that buzzes about the World of Warcraft Community now is whether or not these classes will be available for the players of World of Warcraft.

Looking at the MMORPG industry, as it exists now, we can see that already Star Wars Galaxies has released this type of character class. The "force sensitive" characters are available to a player once they have "unlocked" that quest. Force sensitive characters have the potential for great power. The developers of SWG state that a fully trained Jedi Knight could potentially take on a fair sized group of normal players with a reasonable chance of success. Those would be some pretty powerful characters and in-line for what you might expect of a Jedi Knight in the mythos.

In the World of Warcraft development as we have it so far, we can see the impact of the game's units on the character classes that have been released. A Warrior is very similar to a Grunt or Footman. A Hunter mirrors a Huntress or Raider. A Shaman or Druid mirrors their namesakes. A mage is close to a sorceress and warlocks exist as models if not as a unit outside of the campaign.

So the big open question that is frequently asked is "Can you play as a Paladin or some other Hero class from Warcraft III?" We even asked it directly at E3, our answer was; "We haven't announced that yet" <grin>

So begins the speculation. There would be two approaches to take if you wanted to enable "hero" classes in World of Warcraft. The first would be the method that Star Wars Galaxies takes. Once you have "unlocked" the potential to make a Jedi, you have to make a new character and start over to use any of those skills.

The second method is more analogous to how Dungeons and Dragons treats "Prestige classes". The idea is that at a certain level of experience and with the right combination of skills, a character can "level-up" into a special, more powerful type of class. With proper requirements, this might be an interesting methodology for Blizzard to follow.

The trick to the enabling of hero classes is to make them rare. No one wants to see hundreds of brooding night elf demon hunters. A handful in a population of 3000-5000 players would make for an interesting experience if you came across one of them when you were traveling through the air on your griffon.

So how do you keep a hero class a rarity? There has to be some negative to the positive. For SWG, the force sensitive characters are playing a near-hardcore mode. They only get a few deaths to allow for lag issues. Too many times swamped by Sand People and you are done, your character permanently dead.

Another way is to make the requirements ridiculously hard. Aim these hero characters at the top .5% of the player population. It would be similar to an item in Diablo II that would require a 99th level character. The downside is that it becomes more achievable with time.

The third method would be to have a hybrid of the second method. Have ridiculously hard requirements, coupled with a special quest unlock. Maybe the player served a pivotal role in a game master sponsored quest. Or maybe they found a trainer that only appears on a night when Azeroth's two moons eclipse in the secluded glens of Ashenvale forest. If you miss him or can't complete his quest on time or someone completes the quest first, well, then you might have to wait another month to try again.

With a hybrid method, there would be a way to control the amount of hero classes that arise, as the number of spots themselves is limited. Yet it would still be obtainable by the best of the best players. This would create a rarity of the hero classes so that a hundred mountain kings wouldn't descend on some poor tavern.

Given the right level of prerequisites, rarity of unlocking quests, and population levels, a legendary hero class could add a great deal to the immersion of the World of Warcraft. In a desperate battle against the elder elemental of Blackrock spire, you might catch a glimpse of a Mountain King raging in battle. Deep within the forests of Kalimdor, you might see an arch druid moving quickly amongst the ancients. Across the hard plains of the Barrens, a Tauren Chieftain might stop on a bluff to survey the desolate lands below. A Paladin of the Silver Hand engaged in a brutal battle against a pack of gnolls. The players that achieved these high stations would be celebrities to the rest of the population serving both as a goal, a draw in the arenas, and to advance the story of that particular realm.





An Analysis of Manual of Monsters

Date : 25 October 2003

The second of a series of Pen and Paper (PnP) books has been released by Sword and Sorcery for role players eager to put their Warcraft role playing into action. This work, "Manual of Monsters" is available at bookstores and on-line at the suggested retail price of $29.95. It is put together by Mike Johnstone with whom we had done an interview back in August.


Ancient
"Manual of Monsters" is less of a typical role playing book as much as it is a resource for GMs of Azeroth worlds. The tie to Blizzard's creative team is unmistakably. Chris Metzen, the loremaster of Blizzard, is credited and writes the forward for this book. Chris's enthusiasm for the world of Azeroth is unmistakable in his forward and Samwise's new art is captivating on the front cover and interior pages. Unfortunately, the art within the book is all black and white, but it runs about 70% new art and all of it is top notch.

Going through the manual explains the various changes that the new and different monsters of Azeroth translate to the mythos of this world. Why there is more myth and lore in the first book, this book holds some of it's own nuggets.

The last time we left the Draenei, they were waging a pitched battle with the fel orcs of outland. Now they have settled in the Swamp of Sorrows and returned to their peaceful ways. Peaceful, that is, until an Orc is encountered. At which time they do all that they can to destroy not only that Orc, but any and all of his race. Draenei in the Manual of Monsters have lost their cloaking ability.

Dragons and their flights are well described and include art from our recent guests at hallsofcreation. Some interesting take aways from the dragon section. Orcs are buying Black dragons forced into slavery by more powerful dragon kin. There is a little bit of speculation about the event or item that might have twisted Deathwing into the death dealing dragon that he became. The Dragonspawn are not actually offspring of Dragons, but the result of hundreds and thousands of generations of humanoids slowly taking on a more Dragonic look. They are fanatically loyal and will fight as foot soldiers for the Dragon flight's interests.

Harpies are rumored to be the cursed betrayers of the High Borne Queen Azshara. They take males, cripple them, use them for mating purposes and then serve them as dinner to the hatchlings.

Kudos are a scared animal to the Tauren. Defeating one in battle is considered the measure of adulthood, and each Kudo taken in the hunt is consumed completely for the needs of the Tauren tribe.

Contrary to some of the rumors that floated on our forums, all Murlocs are evil and driven to the surface by deeper and deadlier evils to wreck havoc on the mortal races of Azeroth. The more evil of the Murlocs actually use their healing energies to heal their captives of their injuries. The better to eat them, they last longer and suffer more agony.

The Naga are doing just fine beneath the ocean. The high borne Queen Azshara also prospers beneath the sea in the Naga city of Nazjatar. The Naga are a matriarchal society, men are the warriors, but they are commanded by the magic wielding females of the race. Lady Vaija wields a magical long bow crafted by the high borne Queen herself.

The scourge has many enemies. Not the least of which are the remnants of Nerubin society. The Nerubins have settled on the north coast of Kalimdor where they try desperately to hang on to the art, culture and study of law that they once enjoyed.


Blue Dragon, hallsofcreation.com
Ogres have some mysteries settled as well. The difference between the two headed and single headed variety is attributed to the influence of Gul'Dan's mischief. Now the two headed Ogres are looked at for spiritual guidance as Ogre society looks for some direction. For now Ogres mix and match different lifestyles demonstrated by the cultures around them. An Ogre's magical energies are actually generated from the Ogre itself. Instead of study and practice, Ogre's draw magical energies from themselves.

Although fans of Warcraft are new to the Pandaren race, turns out Pandarens aren't new to Azeroth. They've been around since before the War of the Ancients. They were originally allies with the Kaldorei, but withdrew from the close relationship as the Kaldorei moved more and more into the dangerous dabbling of magic.

Revenants are the foot soldiers of the old gods. Now they exist to wreck vengeance on all living things that still populate the lands of Azeroth.

There is mention of a city of the ancient titans at Uldaman, deep within the vaults of Khaz Modan.

The various species of Troll are detailed. The short lived species of Island troll is never mentioned. The Trolls are described as a fierce people, but also honorable. Most species are without redeeming qualities with the exception of the Jungle trolls. Trolls aren't named until they survive their first battle. The age old question in "The Last Guardian" is answered. There are only four species of Trolls.

The theory that wisps are actually the spirits of dead Night Elves is mentioned in their description, but in the same sentence, it is said that Night Elves scholars scoff at this Human theory.

The details on the Burning Legion and Scourge are interesting in terms of how much more powerful they seem in the pen and paper game than they do in the RTS game. This could be a sign that Burning Legion units in the World of Warcraft will be more like they were originally envisioned. Extremely kick butt.


Revenant, hallsofcreation.com
There are some details into how the Burning Legion is structured. The Doom Guards were exclusively the lackeys of Archimonde. Now, while they still paint the symbol of their dead leader upon their armor, but they rent out to the most appealing and powerful warlords. The forces of Kil'Jeaden are and have been separate from the forces of Archimonde. These demons have kept their cohesion and have redoubled their efforts in the face of Archimonde's defeat.

Some interesting tidbits on the scourge as well. "In short, the longer one is undead, the more evil one becomes until no trace of the original personality is left within the fallen individual." Bad news for our friend Timmy.

The end of the book has some work by Bob Fitch of Blizzard that details some of the villains and equipment that they use. Of note, Illidan is alive and kicking, even after that final confrontation with Prince Arthas at the top of the world. His weapons are from a doom guard that he defeated back in the original War of the Ancients. Lady Vasha is alive as well and wields the bow crafted for her by the high borne Queen herself. The Lich King is a mixture of Ner'zhul and the hapless Prince Arthas. A combination of wills and experiences contained with Arthas's body and sheathed in Ner'Zhul's raw power. Finally there is some talk about the Pit Lord Azzinoth and his blade, Spite, forged by Mammaroth and containing the essence of a minor demon.

All in all, an enjoyable read for people interested in some of the more obscure details of Azeroth. Certainly a must have for GMs that have budding campaigns in the World of Azeroth. 





lizzard Trip Report Day One - Introduction

George from Blizzard calls to make sure that we were still coming out to California. Of course we were still coming. After working three months to make the visit happen, we weren't about to let it get away. We told them that we hadn't wanted to bother them, but in reality, we hadn't called to confirm that we were coming because we didn't want Blizzard to change their minds.

It's amazing what you can do with Lego these days 

The Lego map was built and sent the day previous. It was a large 30" x 40 map of the World of Azeroth. I had basically hoped it would arrive in one piece. I warned George it was on the way, but I don't think the scale of this map actually hit Blizzard until the box arrived the next day. I also left off Northrend. But that was deliberate. I wanted to make sure they had to invite me back if they do an expansion!

We came close to missing our appointment in entirety. Having arrived at the Minneapolis-St. Paul airport early to catch our flight, we had been put on an earlier flight to Chicago and Los Angeles. Good thing too, as the flight we were supposed to take to Los Angeles would be cancelled later that day.

  

After getting into the Los Angeles airport around 10:30pm local time, it was off to find our rental car and make the trip south down the interstate 405.

The tools of the trade

Getting into the hotel room about 12:30pm, we made a quick scan of the forums and then it was off to bed for a big day on Friday.

Blizzard had called and asked us to show up at 10:30am. Well, we wanted to make absolutely sure that we weren't late. And we weren't. At 10:02am we rolled into the Blizzard parking lot. The squat building was fairly non-descript.

George met us in the lobby. We were busy examining a guide to Starcraft English book apparently written in Korean. Man, those Korean fans are hardcore. 




 About Blizzard

Hey we got fans too!

One of the more pleasant surprises at Blizzard was a fellow who had found our little tour on the developer floor. He introduced himself and told us what a big fan he was of our sites. We immediately gave him one of the business cards we had made up for our trip. He explained that while he wasn't able to comment directly in our forums, he had for a long time wanted to express his thanks for the work we do. It was quite flattering and was probably one of the few times at Blizzard where we were truly left speechless.

Temperament at Blizzard

Even with the highly visible troubles that Blizzard's parent company Vivendi has been having, and the loss of some of the company's more visible figureheads this last year, there was absolutely no sign of morale trouble at Blizzard. We actually had expected to find a few people complaining about the situation, but the employees we talked to seemed remarkably insulated from these troubles. Their focus was solely on creating the best games that they could possibly build.

Perhaps the best illustration we have of that was from our discussion of guild formations with developer Jeffrey Kaplan. We remarked that the method they had chosen to create guilds was highly automatic and intuitive and much easier than in some other MMO games. We then told him that this was a wonderful business decision that would drive down support calls.

Mr. Kaplan looked as bewildered as we had ever seen a Blizzard employee on our visit.

He took a second and then calmly explained to us that the development team really didn't care a bit if it was a good business decision or not. It was good game play and that was all that mattered. We may have actually been on the verge of unintentionally insulting our guide. Needless to say we did not tie any more design decisions to business reasons.

Office Decorations

The treasure trove deep within the Blizzard dungeons 


Every office was full of decorations and more often than not, there would be Blizzard swag proudly displayed on bookcases lining the walls. The various five-year sword awards hung from the walls as well. It was explained to us that as the years have progressed, the swords have also become much more detailed and elaborate. Just another example of how Blizzard refuses to be satisfied with what they have done. Everything that they do seemed to be the subject of "how can we do it better?" It will be interesting to see how the shield design featured in the president's office will change now that more and more employees are getting closer to reaching that milestone.

There were soda machines within easy walking distances, and a couple of common tables where it appeared that the developers ate hurriedly before returning to their offices. "That is probably the cleanest I have ever seen that table" was one remark. Well, we'd hate to see it when they considered it dirty.

DDR Fitness room

So with food being brought in once in a while, and every developer deep in his or her dark den doing their work, you can only imagine that the exercise room would be an empty office setup with a Dance Dance Revolution pad. A pair of them actually, so that in even this, there could be some good-natured competition. We never went exploring for a shower or locker room, but for the sake of their fellow developers we can only hope that there is one.

Cinematics Room

Back right before Diablo II, the cinematics team decided that they really needed a viewing area where they could have the whole team sit down and watch the cinematics in a movie theater type environment.

In another example of the passion and pride that the employees at Blizzard have, they took their own money to build one after having trouble finding the resources internally to do it. Now they have a nicely tiered viewing room with multiple levels and couches with which to view their creations. Complete with a stereo system and projector, they can can gather and watch the cinematics and discuss how to make them better still. Only thing we saw missing was a popcorn machine.

Took over the whole building

One of the things we noticed when we entered the building was that although Blizzard lists a suite number… they are the only occupants of the building right now. When the last company to co-habit with Blizzard left, they took over the space and are busy preparing it for the live team and customer support cube farms. Blizzard may be new to the MMO game arena, but they are intent on doing it correctly. Still, it looked a little silly to only have one company on the building directory. Maybe they will eventually move the office lobby into the building lobby. 





Answers to Some of the Questions Asked in the Forum

for Hell_KnightX, asked for more details on Warlock's summoning.

You get the same summoned creature each time. For instance, once you summon an Imp, it is always the same Imp with the same name. Infernals are still summonable. They are going to be used as a PvP siege spell. Fun fact: One player sent his Imp into attack. The Imp's retort? "You better back me up this time!"

for Nojin, asked about the state of the alpha

There will be a full article on the state of the Alpha and what we think that means for the Beta. Too detailed an answer to give here, but we do have an answer.

for Severoth, Blazing_Arrow, and Smarf. They asked about PvP

We got all sorts of details on PvP! We'll be talking about PvP in detail coming up.

for Blazing_Arrow, who asked for game time details.

Right now server time is game time. A one to one relationship.

for Smarf, DeadMuskrat, Tyran_Harasvelg, MastaBlasta and Wound(UN) who all asked about Heroes.

We'll talk more about the state of the heroes classes in the State of the Alpha discussion.

for Smarf and Muskrat, who asked for clarification on talents and skills.

We'll talk about Skills and Talents in an article. Too much detail to answer here.

For Smarf who asked about Shaman starting skills.

Shamans have just been unlocked when I got there. Lightning bolt and Healing wave were the initial spells. Mace mastery also was a base trait of Shamans as I commonly used a mace to smash the last little bit of the creatures life when I was playing.

For Roo and Aerys_Darkblade, who asked about exploring the World of Warcraft

One of the really cool things we saw was Discovery XP. You uncover a new area and it's worth experience. The notable NPCs of pervious Warcraft games will be there, unfortunately a lot of their art was not complete for the Alpha build we were playing, and we weren't able to play the internal developers only build.

For Battletorn who asked about creep spawning times and if the spawns change based on time of day.

A lot of the world will spawn the creeps the same every time. But there will also be areas that spawn interesting and new creeps that are only available at certain times. There are also easter egg trainers and merchants sprinkled throughout the world.

For Battletorn who asked about crafted items being marked by their craftspeople.

All crafted items like swords and such are automatically marked by the craftsman and identifiable as being crafted by that particular character.

For Battletorn who asked if there were any statistical advantage to being in a guild.

There aren't any ingame mechanic advantages to being in a guild. However, there are the obvious advantages of having people to group with. Additionally there will be some massive dungeons that will require such a volume of players that unless you are in a guild you may have a problem with it.

For Battletorn who asked if flying mounts were controllable

Only the mounts are controllable. Zemplins, boats, and other flying taxis are not controllable. You have to take the route advertised.

For Battletorn and Aerys_Darkblade who asked about jumping heights being modified by race

All players have the same jump height. So there aren't ledges that a Tauren could jump to that a Gnome could not.

For Battletorn who asked if there was a way to just press a key and make your character run without holding down the key.

There is a key that makes your character just run without holding down the move forward key. I found it by accident on the nice five button mouse I was using.

For Battletorn who asked for details on the firearms in World of Warcraft

Guns are balanced by being harder hitting, but slower to fire. Engineers can craft scopes, and different sorts of shots for players who take a shine to being a sharpshooter.

For Grumpy_Joe who asked when the game will be released.

The game will be released, "when it is done" Sorry to quote back company line to you. Any release dates you've seen are somebody who is not Blizzard guessing. Play them no mind. We'll explain it more in the "State of the Alpha" section.

For Huckle who asked if other classes could use a gun.

It is possible for a warrior to use a gun. But skills that are typically not associated with a particular class means that you will always be worse with it then the class that excels at it. Best way to think about this is to use Diablo II's mechanics as a guide. While a Barbarian can always use a bow, that class will never be as good at it as the Amazon class would be.

For Huckle who asked about the crafting process.

Crafting is quick when you have the materials. It is the gathering that might take some time. Then there is the process of finding somewhere to craft the item. Some some skills that isn't necessary, like Alchemy.

For GrimAdept who asked about movement rates under weight or wounded

No movement effect for encumbrance right now. When I was wounded, there wasn't an effect on my movement either.

For Wulfsyarn(GM WWN), who asked about guilds.

We'll do a whole section of guilds and grouping.

For Wulfsyarn(GM WWN), who asked about chat channels in game.

Only two zone wide chat channels active right now. They haven't decided on the total number for the final. Party chats as well of course.

For Nojin and Minnesotaman, who asked about playing Druids.

The druids were locked. I couldn't play one.

For TheDagdaMar145 who asked about class balance in PvP.

I really want to answer the class/race PvP balance question, but it really needs it's own section.

For Solmancer and Sterlng5583 who asked about the reputation tab.

I'll handle the reputation tab in a section. We got a definitive answer on how that works.

For Solmancer who asked about the in-game map.

The in-game map is just a placeholder. It is a very clever in-house program designed to show a pixel perfect representation of the map. But what you've seen is not the final product. The area of Gilneas is completely missing for example.

For Solmancer who asked for details on the class skills.

Class balance is something I have a great information on. Class specifics not as much, mostly because I wanted to focus on the things that would not change between now and the beta.

For Litterdxj, Guardian_Jester(G/J) who asked about having to sign a NDA

I never signed a NDA for my visit. I was asked not to photograph areas which I did not. I was asked to not write about two things that are both not World of Warcraft related so I have already forgotten what they were. I was asked to let Blizzard read through the articles first, so I will be honoring that and sending them copies before I post.

For Sterling5583 who asked about character development

Class/Character development we will cover in an article.

For Sterling5583 who asked about Siege weapons

The Blizzard development team is really hoping that the siege weaponry makes the final cut for PvP.

For Arcamas who asked about Ritual Spells

I will talk about the ritual spells when I talk about the spell engine.

For Stulyscale who asked about if there was a separation of combat and trade skills

Combat skills and trade skills are separated to keep power gamers from being able to plow all of their skills into combat and in balancing the game.

For Bombzab who asked about life quests

Can't tell you much about the life quests. But it's not for lack of asking.

For Aerys_Darkblade who asked for spell details.

Spells will be detailed when we talk about rituals. You might be disappointed however if you were looking for specifics.

For Aerys_Darkblade who asked if all creeps would be hostile

Some creeps will not be hostile to you when you attack. More details in the reputation section that is coming up.

Report by: OneMadOgre





 State of the Alpha, Moving to Beta

How and What Is Blizzard Doing?

Blizzard's design philosophy is to work the game development from the bottom levels up. The current Alpha is built to a maximum of twenty-five levels. The development team feels that the Beta is pretty solid for levels one through thirty. The internal development on character skills is said to be fairly done from level one to level forty. The quests are ready to be added to bring it up to fifty levels. The maximum character level is still set to be sixty.

The content itself is fully realized, but they are still getting some of it into the game.

Blizzard works from the bottom up in order to reduce the amount of rework that they need to do. They insist on making sure that the game feels like fun at every point. What this means is that they are taking extraordinary pains to avoid any sort of feel that the game is just a treadmill to get to the next level or zone. So as they have worked the game, they've taken great pains to tweak even the low level adventures, zones, and skills for game play value.

As Blizzard's development team moved through the different races, they've been working the servers as if it was launch day. When the alpha focus shifts, all of the pervious characters are locked out and everyone starts anew in the new area. This is to stress test the area and give Blizzard an idea how to tune spawns for large amounts of players. Our guide told us that they expected that 400 players would do a great job of testing the new areas. We figure that they plan on having an awful lot of servers or they are really underestimating what the initial lure of this game will be to gamers.

-- Update: Jan-23-04 -- A small clarification. Blizzard wrote to mention that the 400 player load test is for a starting area. They have tuned this to over 500 players now, and there are six starting areas which, if extrapolated out, works out to over 3000 players per server on at any particular time.

When we arrived, they had just unlocked the region around Orgimmar. Trolls, Orcs, and Tauren were unlocked for the Shaman, Warrior, and Warlocks. Everyone was quite excited to have the new races and classes unlocked, and it looked like the testing of the initial areas for spawn count and quests were being enjoyed by upwards of 240 people at times.

Is the Game Fun in Alpha?

Sure was for us, but we only played for a short while. How about for the normal Friends and Family testers? Well, one of the developers we talked to has his mother in the game. How involved is she? In the Undead alpha testing, she had made it to level 21, higher than some of the developers themselves! She's not a gamer normally, so for her to stick with it as much as she has, including being up at midnight one night anxiously instant messaging her son for knowledge of when the next patch would be out really speaks to the accessibility of this game. Well, if she's playing for the long haul, we're going to take that as a ringing endorsement of the longer term play value of the Alpha. (It also made us wish that we had relatives working at Blizzard. Anyone want to adopt us?)

What About the High Level Content?

Well, as we remarked, the Alpha is currently only extended up to 25th level. This means that things like Heroes are not in the Alpha build yet. They are definitely planned, but for right now, no one but the developers have any real idea about how everything was going to work. Since they hadn't nailed it down exactly what features that they want to give heroes, they were a little vague about the details. Considering how good the levels that were considered done looked, we're going to give them the benefit of the doubt. So for now, Hero lovers, take heart in that the Hero content is being built and integrated into the game, but your suggestions about how heroes should work and play are still going to find willing ears over at Blizzard.

How Far Along Are They and What is Left?

The Alpha, as mentioned, is now in the Orc, Troll, and Tauren content. The Undead sections had just closed before we arrived. The Humans, Gnomes, and Dwarves have been completed. Once they stress test the Orc, Troll and Tauren areas for the launch of the beta, they only have the Night Elves left. Finally there will be an open section of the Alpha where characters can start anywhere.

So What Does That Mean For the Beta Date?

It means you probably won't need to hold your breath for the beta occurring this month. (Although the sign ups most likely will.) There is still a lot of work to do. Commonly people who have played the game have remarked how polished and finished the game looks. Sure enough, the areas they are seeing are polished and ready. But Blizzard can't possibly show you the whole of the game. Even at the beginning levels it could take over a week to see anything judging by what we saw and what they wanted us to see that we just couldn't get to due to time constraints. So when Blizzard insists that the game isn't ready yet, that is because they haven't put their customary finishing touches on all aspects of the game yet.

If Blizzard decides to open the beta when they open all of the races, the Beta could possibly take place in February. Otherwise, given Blizzard's penchant for making sure that everything is just the way that they want it, it might be March.

Report by: OneMadOgre





 Getting About

The World of Warcraft is a big place. The developers want the world to feel epic. For instance, as you approach Ogrimmar, you think it looks pretty impressive. Then it gets bigger. And bigger. And bigger still. When you finally run through the gates, it is absolutely stunning how big the walls are.

So the problem becomes how do you make a world seem epic without getting lost? For Blizzard, it's all about how you set up the world. As we've told you before, the town of Stormwind keep is setup so that the color of the roofs give away what section of town you are in. In Ogrimmar, they make extensive use of sub zones to help you understand where you are. The Night Elves build up to keep the city large but compact.

City Life

The cities will have everything that the ordinary adventurer needs. The cities will be where all of the trainers are. When you level, you can spend your talent points right away, but the skill point spending requires a trainer, and that requires a city. Cities are a gathering point not only for skill training but as social centers and jumping off points for quests.

Taxi!

To get quickly from one point to another, you jump aboard a flying beast and pay the fare. As you discover more routes, you get to have more destinations. The taxi service is something that Blizzard is rightfully proud of. Not only is it a quick way to get across the continent, but it also gives you a chance to see what is happening in areas you couldn't visit otherwise.

This is illustrated by our guide, Jeffery Kaplan who tells us that when you take the taxi from Stormwind to Ironforge, you pass over the blasted lands where there will be level 60 content active and waiting there down beneath you.

Intercontinental Travel

Taxis are great for hoping from city to city, but what if you want to make the big trip across the Great Sea? For the Horde, they will travel via Zeppelins, speeding from one continent to the other. The Alliance will take a more conventional sea route from shore to shore. Maybe you'd like to visit one of the neutral areas? Goblins will offer a ship service from Racket to Booty Bay for the daring who wish to see how the other faction lives.

Learn more about target portraits in our Interfaces section. Read more on Transportation

Portal Spells

When we saw portals last, Blizzard was telling us that they would probably not make the final game as they might make travel a little easier. How to get around that and still have portal spells? Easy. Make them a ritual spell. Mages have a mass teleport type spell that will be a ritual spell, and our 25th level warlock demo character had a ritual spell that he could cast to bring a character right to his location. Convenient way to avoid backspawn in your instanced dungeon and to get your party together for that final push against a dungeon boss.

Learn more about target portraits in our Interfaces section. Read more on Rituals

Running and Jumping.

All charcters jump. Our Troll character, Gunslinger, elegantly lifted his arms as we jumped and we had a nice floating feel as we came down. Get a running start and it almost feels like flying. All characters can jump to the same height, which will be a good thing when you are jumping into the hidden area on Wellington cavern and talking to the hidden merchant there.

Interestingly, when our guide enabled a speed cheat to our Warlock, the Warlock would take off from the top of small hills, floating through the air on the downhill side. It would seem that the physics model accounts for speed when you crest a hill and would cause our Warlock to soar for a few seconds, his legs pumping uselessly beneath him.

Blizzard ensured us that falling damage would make it into the game. But one of the most clever things we saw was a long fall into a waiting pool of water. We used this as an expressway from the end of the dungeon back towards the beginning. Now if only we could have had someone there to judge our high dive.

Learn more about target portraits in our Interfaces section. Read more on Control

Emotes

One of the more interesting things we saw in our game play demonstrations was at the entry point for new Orc and Troll characters. There was a troll female (new models on the troll females since Gencon. They look almost elegant now, lean and graceful) doing a dance. How good are the animations? Well there was at least five other players watching this lithe graceful troll go through an almost ballet style dance. Some even started to join in, all we needed was a band and it could have nearly been called a rave.

Learn more about target portraits in our Interfaces section. Read more on Emotes

 

Minimap

The minimap is full of information for a player. Multiple mouseovers give information on your group members, towns, and trade goods. For instance, maybe you've been separated from a member in your group and you are watching their health slowly drop. By mousing over the pins on the mini-map, you can get the direction right to your in-need teammate. Maybe you have your Herbalist skill turned on. Now your desired reagents will show up as yellow dots on the mini map as you approach. No more standing around, desperately hoping that this time you will be successful in harvesting some ore or some herbs. Just search around, look out for creeps, and focus in on those yellow dots. Everything about World of Warcraft is geared to make you have to play and not allow you to be successful by figuring out a strange homemade robot designed to press the "M" key every five seconds.

Learn more about target portraits in our Interfaces section. Read more on the min-map

To Each Their Own

Blizzard has also worked to make every starting location have it's own feel. That means more than some different exterior art. Each starting location has it's own mood and culture. Even quests and how they are given to players and what is presented in the quests change based on where you are located. Again, it is attention to detail. Blizzards wants to make sure that each race's area is it's own distinct look and feel.

It's a reflection of one of the core tenets of development over there at Blizzard's HQ. Within the corporate pecking order, there is a conscious effort to make sure that the art and artists never take a back seat to the developers and the technology.

Blizzard understands that technology always improves, so a game that is developed to only showcase it's technology is doomed to be replaced shortly afterwards by the next new thing. A game that plays attention to the little things, like lions that go to take naps under a tree after running down a gazelle, makes for a game that has a long life in your CD-Rom tray.

Making the World Your Own.

As you go through the world and discover new zones, you will be rewarded with experience XP. This isn't to say that you can just zip from zone to zone and level up. Even as we sat creating a Strong Troll's Blood potion out on the Barrens, a group of Alliance raiders spawned up and attacked us. A large bear, a dwarf, and two humans broke our peaceful repose and attacked. So much for a quiet moment.

The Bigger Picture

The map you've seen is not the finished product. It's an internal program put together to show a pixel perfect map. It was then airbrushed by an artist to give it a nicer outline. The whole country of Gilneas for instance is missing.

Don't worry though, you won't miss Gilneas. The whole country of Gilneas has closed their borders and built a large wall at Silverpine and will not be playable at game launch. Also the Ugrow crater region obviously is a little squarer than perhaps Blizzard would like. Even still, your party members can't get away from you on this map either. They'll show up so you can check in on group members that have ventured far away.

Conclusion

Blizzard has a tall order to fulfill. Create a huge, epic world that feels larger than life. Then make it easy and quick to get around this world. To date we'd say that they are accomplishing this. For instance, when we asked about the breadcrumb quests, we were told that these "Quest designer as cruise director" quests were designed to help players get around the world to the regions that would be the most fun for them at the level that they are at. Initially alpha players found the regions so dense with content that they never left. Sounds like Blizzard is well on the path to making the world both epic and dense. 





 Getting Together

Groups

As you move out into the World of Warcraft, you will most likely eventually be part of a group. Blizzard has worked to make the game easier for the casual player to get together and form small parties in order to take on tougher content.

You can group with players that you see on screen by right clicking on them in your field of vision and inviting them into your group. If you have people on your friends list, you can also invite them in to your group right from the friends list.

When you are in a group, you get notification of what your group members are looting. Click on the notification of the item and the statistics of that item are displayed on your screen. So when your buddy gets that uber-item, you can check it out without having to ask to see it.

(What's cool is that this feature is implemented throughout the chats. Want to sell an item? Start a chat and then click the item to see the item's title put right into chat and potential buyers can click on the item and see what you're selling.)

Within the dungeons there is commonly a shared space where players can mingle and take on the easier creeps that spawn there. Then once you've gathered up your party you head in through the blue instance line into the instanced area. Once you are in a group-instanced dungeon it's all yours. Any member of your group that crosses the instance line joins your instance. Anyone who is not in your group enters their own instance. Simple huh?

Guilds

Guilds are functioning in the alpha, but only as a placeholder piece of code. When someone wants to create a new guild, they will need to be able to afford a guild petition from a vendor. After receiving the petition, they have to find 10 players that are willing to sign on and become a member of the guild. Once ten players have checked off as members of this new guild, the petition is returned to the guild vendor and a new guild is formed. Simple and organic. Blizzard wanted to make sure that forming guilds could be done completely in game. No tracking down a Blizzard game master or having to use a website, it's all in game.

Guildmembers get access to the tabard slot. One of two slots (shirt is the other) on the paperdoll where there will never be an item that can modify your characters attributes. This is designed so that there can be a wide range of looks for the characters without players being worried that they need to have the "best" tabard.

Guilds will also have a leg up on the green instance lines. These lines distinguish guild raid content. Whereas a group instance will be reset if all of the group members leave the instance, guild instances are designed to stay up for weeks at a time. This allows for some very difficult and impressive encounters where tens of players can work in concert to hold down a section of the dungeon or take on some of the truly impressive beasts that occupy the guild raid dungeons.

Learn more about target portraits in our Interfaces section. Read more on Guilds
Learn more about target portraits in our Interfaces section. Visit the Guild Forum

What About a Hard Cap?

A hard cap is a designed limitation to keep players from simply swarming over content like a mass of stimmed marines. Right now, Blizzard is getting set to start testing the process. There are two schools of thought, one that hard caps are a necessary evil as they can keep eighty players from storming a region that was designed for thirty. The other is that they can lead to a "benchwarmer" type of problem where, when 32 members of the guild show up for a 30 member hard capped area, two of them have to sit on the side. Which way works better? Hard to tell. It's something that we will find out as it's tested.

What If You Are a Loner?

"It's very important to us that people be able to solo" -Jeffrey Kaplan, Blizzard

Not to worry if you're planning on playing this game mostly on your own. While Blizzard has taken pains to make grouping easy and accessible to players, they know that even in a massive multiplayer game, there will be people who want to head out on their own. Jeffrey promised us that committed solo players would be able to get all of the way to level 60. You'll need to be pretty committed to make it happen however.

Report by: OneMadOgre







 Reputation

The reputation tab on the character model has been the source of interest for quite some time now. We've spent some time speculating on if the reputation tab meant something about the horde and alliance factions back when Rob Pardo was posting more on the battle.net forums.

Well factions are still set as hard factions; there is no way to be that lone Orc that loves humans. What the reputation tab is for is to display how all of the other independent factions view you.

Back when the Orc campaign was released for Warcraft III, Blizzard talked about how closely aspects of the Orc campaign would mirror the upcoming World of Warcraft game. Those of you who have played through the Orc campaign are aware of the trials that Rexxar goes through to prove his worth to the Stone Maul Ogre clan. This is very similar to how the reputations will work.

Throughout the lands of Azeroth, there will be factions that have a reaction of some sort to you. This faction's reaction to you can then be changed for the better or for the worse by the actions you take.

For instance, you will start with a neutral stance with Booty Bay and a hostile stance with the Bloodsail Buccaneers. For most players, this is probably how it will always be. But for some, they will discover that there are quests that can raise their reputation with the Bloodsail Buccaneers. You declare if you want to lose reputation with a faction and it starts to happen. It's much easier to lose reputation than it is to gain it.

As you gain reputation with the Bloodsail Buccaneers, you'll discover that what was once a creep is now a leather merchant for example. Reputations can be setup such that they are incompatible. For instance to become "lordly" with the Bloodsail Buccaneers, you'll need to declare your hostility to the people of Booty Bay. You can attempt to change your reputation as often as you'd like, switching sides each time.

The quest engine can also take reputation into effect when deciding if there is a quest for you or not. You won't even know what you are missing however, as if you don't qualify for the quest, you won't know that it existed. 




 Good Grief!

In any society, there are people who just seem to have trouble fitting in. In real life they end up being ostracized by society and marginized. For a game, this can be a big problem. You want to give your players the freedom to create a name for themselves in how they interact with the world, but you need to build in controls to handle the players that only seek to aggravate or annoy other players. For years, players have been finding ways to aggravate other players, from stealing their items, to spamming their chat, to outright murder of their characters. Any MMO developer worth their salt has to develop plans

Kill Stealing

Kill stealing is the act of sneaking in and taking that last blow to get credit for the kill in a MMO game. Grief players do it not only to steal any XP or items, but to annoy the player working the target. Recently, Final Fantasy XI was released. It marked targets that someone else was attacking by painting them a different color than a normal target. This doesn't keep a griefer from kill stealing, but it does take away the excuse that they did not know it was someone else's target.

Thanks to everyone who wrote in to let us know that we had the kill-stealing lock out wrong on FFXI. Painting a target will keep you from attacking until there is a cry for help. -OMO

Blizzard does not have any visual indications that there is another player working a target that you might be considering. They look to solve this problem by using instanced areas to reduce the negative player collusion that goes on. So it's up to the player to notice the kill stealers and decide that they aren't the sort of people that they want to group with.

Item Farming

In some MMOs, a particular type of mob may generate the rare spawn. This mob is then camped by a player or group of players in an effort to loot all of these spawns. This keeps all sorts of other players from being able to enjoy that content. Blizzard looks to solve this problem with instances as well. By instancing rare spawn, they make it available for anyone to get a chance at it.

Creep Camping

Where there are mobs, there are frequently players out there hunting them. When there are specific quests or mobs that only spawn at an irregular basis, there is a potential for grief. This is demonstrated in Everquest, where on some servers, guilds actually decide which guild has rights to that particular quest for that particular period of time. On less civilized servers, a guild can decide to dominate a quest by completely shutting out other players from the end-game content on that quest by continually clearing out the prerequisites so that no other group or player can trigger the end quest, but the guild that controls it.

Again, Blizzard looks to instances to solve this problem. By utilizing instances, it becomes impossible for a guild to block another guild or player from getting to the content. Instead of relying on design timing decisions to control end game content, Blizzard will have to rely on game play. This is a much harder road, as well as a much more rewarding road for the players. No one wants to check a website to see if they are scheduled to take on a green dragon today.

Annoyances

If you've ever played a MMO where you could not easily ignore players, you have undoubtedly encountered one of these types. Players who just won't leave you alone, or run through town shouting at the top of their lungs some ridiculous comment or request. Well, just like in Diablo II, squelch will be an option for you. There could still be some trouble with dueling requests, but like they did with trade requests in Diablo II, you can bet that Blizzard will put a timer on this.

Player Killing

Perhaps one of the most frustrating aspects of MMOs for the casual player is the player killer. Unlike true PvPers, the Player Killer is only out there hunting players for the joy of aggravating another player. These griefers get a high from the frustration and anger they can illicit in another player. PKers do not have a method to exist in World of Warcraft. The game is settled into two types of Player versus Player combat.

PvP can happen inside of the PvP instances or inside of the arenas. This is the consensual PvP that Blizzard has hinted about, and that we will go into in more detail next section. The other method is the duel.

As hinted at Gencon, dueling is in the game now. Players can challenge each other to a duel at any spot or time. If accepted, the battle is joined. It is a duel to near death, at the point that one of the players would be reduced to zero or less hitpoints, they are forced into a surrender emote and a message displays across the zone that you have lost your duel with another player. There is no death penalty here as no one dies. The duel throw down has a flag that is planted at the acceptance of a duel and if you leave the dueling radius that is generated by the flag, you receive a counter that tells you that you are going to lose the duel unless you reenter the ring. Good news to anyone who is frustrated by the dueler who runs off to avoid the loss. 




 Player v. Player

Blizzard has taken pains to remind us that this upcoming game is the World of WARcraft. While it will have the aspects of crafting and socialization that can and have driven some of the MUDs (Multi-user Dungeons) that have come before it, Blizzard plans on having a world where action and heroics are center stage.

We were actually quite surprised that Blizzard was willing to talk about PvP (player versus player) with us after being so tight lipped on the subject for so long. Blizzard has taken the aspects of multi-player competition in the games it has built and the games that they have admired and blended it into the PvP sections of Azeroth. How to describe the PvP instances of Azeroth? Well our guide described it as "Warcraft III meets Battlefield 1942"

Imagine if you would, two towns on either end of the instance, both humming away quietly as peons and peasants went to work chopping wood and mining gold. Zoom into the Great Hall and you can see a barracks just on the crest of the hill where a Grunt comes marching out. He forms up with two other waiting grunts and three troll headhunters and then they take off down the path. Hurrying to catch up with your Tauren shaman character, you patrol the near zones of your outpost. No humans to be seen, you continue onward until you come across a night elf druid leading a group of dwarf riflemen.

Battle is joined…. The Orc grunts smash into the thin line that the Night Elf druid presents in a vain attempt to screen the riflemen. You cast healing wave on the lead grunt and lighting bolt the druid. Within a few moments there is nothing left of the human scout party, but at a sizable cost to your little party. Two grunts are down and a headhunter is badly wounded, not to mention that you are out of mana. As soon as a small sigh escaped your lips for surviving this encounter, a gnome warrior, human mage, and dwarf hunter crest the hill drawn on by the sounds of battle. No rest for you and yours as you rush to challenge them even in your weakened state.

As you can tell by our small fictional example, the PvP zones in World of Warcraft are designed to have the feel of being in a Warcraft III game while still maintaining the intensity of a Battlefield 1942 type game. The zones are designed to be used as teams and with objectives to achieve. This isn't just a bloodbath in the center of the map. You'll want to do everything you can to destroy your opponent's infrastructure in order to keep them from spawning new friendly units to accent the players in the zone.

At the same time where the game will have a tactical feel, there is a clear sense of this being a heroic adventure. Just done Rambo style. Jeffrey Kaplan described it like this; "When I die, I don't want to have to run thirty minutes to get back, you know. I don't want to sit and say 'You know, this really isn't fun, I keep dying.' I want to go 'That was awesome! I just died, get me back out there!!'"

To facilitate this, Blizzard has instanced the PvP zones. You'll know when you're headed in that PvP zone by the red swirling mists on the edges of the portal. (Portal is the best word we have for it, the ones we saw were actually very organic looking.) Then when you join that instanced zone, you are placed in an instance with other characters that are around your level and ability. You won't have to worry about being plucked off constantly by characters that are no where near your power level.

The objective of these zones is to have a moving front, where battles are being fought between different groups from each faction. Some controlled by the computer, some controlled by the players. The CGW article this last fall alluded to this when they mentioned that you would be able to fight alongside other NPCs at times as well. Dying is an inconvenience, but never approaching the level where you don't want to respawn immediately. Think along the lines of Battlefield 1942 or a team Halo game.

We commented that this sort of PvP made it possible to basically reenact the cinematic that was released before Warcraft III went gold where the screaming Orc horde came streaming over the hill crest. Blizzard just smiled.

Siege weapons should then be part of the equation. Our first hint to this was when we were told that the Infernal summon of the warlock would have siege value in PvP. They also hope to include catapults, steam tanks, and other siege equipment that the players could man to level the opposition's outpost. No word yet if Portable towers will be a purchasable item.

Arenas

Arenas are still in the game and are more suited for the team versus team battles that are setup ahead of time, for instance between two competing guilds. Here the objective is much more straightforward. Destroy your opponents, plain and simple. This will be the areas that Blizzard hopes to have ticketed events for other players to watch the battle unfold.

Class Balance

One of the things that Jeffery noted on our visit was that they occasionally got complaints from the alpha players that one particular class was better than another class in duels. For instance, the mage would always be able to beat a warrior in a one on one duel. He wasn't worried about this. Jeffrey told us that they were not balancing the game such that a mage and warrior were always on equal footing when it came to a PvP duel. The object is to create a rock, scissors, paper type solution where while a Mage might always be able to beat a Warrior, they would always lose to a Hunter. This is a deliberate game design decision to encourage team play in the PvP zones. Just like they tried to do in Warcraft III, Blizzard does not want it to be a desired strategy to just mass a bunch of warriors or what have you and then see a mass charge. The idea is that small side tactics of a mixed group of characters will win the day for your side, not a zergling like push.

Duels

So if classes aren't balanced, what is the purpose of dueling? Dueling is designed to really be a fun outlet for players to challenge each other without there being any real penalty or problem for losing. It's designed solely to allow players to have a battle and take bragging rights.

So What is the Point of PvP Then?

To settle as score, to make a name for yourself, and to destroy your opponent's infrastructure. But what happens when you meet your objectives in the PvP zone? Blizzard isn't sure yet. There are some ideas, maybe a new vendor becomes available, maybe some new quests are unlocked. The problem is that the rewards have to be scaled such that they don't make it undesirable to play the other side. This is something that will continue to be tested and played to determine the right balance.

So while other games work on creating a world where people can be protected from PKers or on creating worlds where the whole world is one mass battlefield, Blizzard is trying to really capture the best of both worlds. Protect casual players from the power gamers by having the PvP zones known and different in mechanics (lesser death penalty) then the rest of the world. They also want to encourage players to want to be in the PvP zones by making it team and objective based and keeping players of similar power in the same zone. It sounds great, now we'll have to see if they can pull it off.





 Quests

The World of Warcraft is built around the tenet of creating a fantasy world where every player can feel "heroic". From the initial announcements surrounding World of Warcraft up to our visit, that has rung true. Blizzard wants this game to feel very much epic in scale so that every character feels like you are playing a character right out of a novel. The best way to tell a story in a MMO is to do it through quests.

We've seen other attempts to build organic content through what the players themselves build in games like Star Wars Galaxies or The Sims. Blizzard is taking more of a heavy handed approach. Instead of waiting for the players to generate community and build content, they are quite literally stuffing the world full of quests, both formal in-game quests and through spawn and drops for the people who seek out the path less traveled.

Questing in the World of Warcraft

From the moment you enter the World of Warcraft, you will see an opportunity to quest. Right at the spawn point for new players is a NPC with the friendly yellow explanation point over their head. Quests come in slowly, each line making the sound as if it was being scribed into your book. You have to wait for the quest to come in, you can't just skip ahead to the end and see what the reward will be. But at the end of the explanation you are given a choice to accept or decline the quest and what the reward will be for completing the quest.

Poor Private Thorsen

Experienced players will notice that a certain Private Thorsen is having a rough couple of days. Every so often he gets sent on patrol. And every time he gets ambushed and pulled down as he moves about on patrol. If a player or group of players decides to help out Private Thorsen and he survives a little farther into the patrol, you'll discover that he can give them a quest. This is one of the many ways that Blizzard has to help keep players interested in what is going on in the world around them.

Each quest reward can have up to six items that you can select from for a reward as well as "gift" you up to four items as a base. For instance, the quest may offer you a potion of strong troll's blood, a set of battle gauntlets and an item that you choose from a selection of boots, a wand, or a shield. As good as quest items may be, they will not be the primary motivation for completing a quest. The best experience rewards will come from completing quests. If you and your companion both go after the same hunting grounds, but you are on a quest and they are not. When the day is done, you will have gotten more experience than they will have.

These aren't obscure quests either. The quests are fairly straightforward at the entry levels of the game. You get asked to retrieve boar's tusks, or lizard tails, so such. Then you go and hunt where you find those beasts. If you are on the quest, you will see the quest item on the corpse of your prey. If you are not, then the quest items will not appear. If you are grouped and have loot set in a round robin fashion, selecting quest items from the corpse is a free loot action. You don't have to waste your loot selection turn on a quest item. As a matter of fact, if your party members don't have the quest, they won't even get the option to loot the quest items.

There is constant feedback on your quest progress. On the first quest we went on, we were asked to kill ten boars. For each boar we killed, not only did the leaderboard update in our quest log, but the leaderboard would also flash on the screen and then fade away slowly. Our guide mentioned that he insisted on the feedback. With a sly guilty look, he admitted to being a little compulsive about checking on where he was with a quest. He said that even when he knew it was the third boar of ten, he had found himself constantly checking his quest log to confirm on the leaderboard. By making the leaderboard flash on the screen, he was helping out the "compulsive freaks" like himself.

As you move on in levels, quests will become more involved and more sophisticated. At the early levels that we were at, there was just no point in pouring a lot of time in to extremely sophisticated quests. But Blizzard wanted to make sure that we knew that they existed for characters that got past the initial levels of the game and past the initial wonder at just looking at and exploring the game world.

Types of Quests

Blizzard has plans for a variety of quest types. You might come across a character wounded and deep in a dungeon who gives you a quest to lead them out of the dungeon. You could be given a quest to escort a character or caravan for a series of points. There are timed quests where a leader might ask you to slay ten harpies in twenty minutes in order to prove your worth. There are "breadcrumb" quests that are designed to move players to where there is content appropriate for them. It turns out that in the initial stages of the alpha, there would be players that never left certain regions and were completely unaware that a lot of content that they would be interested in was waiting fro them just down the road. Breadcrumb quests were designed to show off the world a little but and give the quest designer a chance to lead you through different areas collecting other quests. Finally, there are also defending the objective quests.

Captain Sanders Treasure Map

NPCs aren't the only way to get quests. There is an item that will spawn when you hunt murlocks and crabs in the Westfall. Captain Sanders' Map (Named for Blizzard employee Matt Sanders) is a rare drop for defeating the beasts of Westfall. When you inspect the map you will be given a quest that can take you to various points in the world and then rewards you with an "unknown reward"

In particular, Jeffrey mentioned a quest that happens now in the Barrens region. Given a particular set of trigger events being met, a large alliance force will spawn in the Barrens and attack the Crossroads, another Orc, and a Tauren outpost. Jeffrey was particularly proud of the quest designer on his team working on this quest. He told us that without excellent player support and coordination, that everything in all three outposts was just rolled. Wiped out. This is actually a wonderful example of how Blizzard will be able to script small "world events" without even needing a GM to handle the event. We should probably make the same correction that Jeffrey made for us. When we say "alliance force", Jeffrey smiled evilly and said "army." This isn't a case where a small group of players will be able to stand and defend the three outposts. For one thing, they are attacked at about the same time. Blizzard has actually designed scripted events that will require a large group of players to defeat, even outside of the guild instanced raid zones.

Blizzard also understands that people go through quests in different ways. Most quests are designed to be a complete evening. For instance, Wailing Caverns is designed to be handled by a group of characters who are level 15-20 in about three hours. For the players that want to just hammer through and do the minimum to accomplish the quest, they may be able to do it quicker. For those who want to meander about the maze and explore every nook and cranny, there will be rare spawn and rare item drops that can be discovered, completely separate from the quest itself. The attention to detail was astounding.

The quests are also frequently integrated with the instance theory in order to be able to tell more of an epic tale. Continuing with the Wailing Cavern example, there are four sub bosses that lead to the final dramatic encounter. This instance technology allows the quest designer to tell a story more in line with a single player RPG than the typical MMORPG. No more worrying about if some other group grabbed boss number two while you did boss number one. They are all yours.

The most important thing that one can take away from our discussion is the complete immersion of questing in the World of Warcraft. Quests aren't something that is tacked into the game engine as a separate piece of content. The quests are interwoven into the very fabric of the game.






 Spells

Spells and effects are a core aspect of Blizzard's character development. From the spells of the warlock to the stances of the warrior, Blizzard has developed a dizzying array of spells, stances, rages, and moves that characters can execute in World of Warcraft. The idea is that combat is never boring, that every combat requires a player to use different techniques to defeat their enemies.

Blizzard has been in the process of balancing the spells and tweaking them for effectiveness and balance. They spend a lot of time making sure that the spells "feel right" for the level and class that they are planned for. We spent some time working over both the Warlock and Warrior classes pages we have with the new details.

What Can the Spells Do?

"…spell system is so robust." - Jeffrey Kaplan, Blizzard

We asked what happens when the designers want to have a spell effect that isn't currently available to them. Jeffrey mentioned that this very rarely happened, the spell engine that they are allowed to draw from for effects has had virtually everything that they could want for effects. What is doesn't have, they ask for, and he told us that mostly these things were turned around in a matter of hours.

Ritual Spells

"Oh, ritual spells are cool." - Jeffrey Kaplan, Blizzard

Ritual spells are still very much a part of the game design. Because they are designed to be high level content, a lot of ritual spells are still being worked on and added into the game. In the build we were in, 25th level was the highest obtainable level, so most ritual spells would not be available to people yet. As it was it took our 25th level cheat warlock to start the ritual we saw. (We couldn't finish it. Nobody was there to help us!)

They aren't finished with designing all of the ritual spells yet. So far of the 20-30 that have been fully conceptualized (There will be more, they wanted to be clear on that.), only two have found their way into the game. The ritual of summoning requires a warlock to start the ritual. Once he starts the ritual, it requires two other characters of any sort to complete it. The other ritual that is in the game so far is the mage's teleport spell.

Rituals can be setup to require any sort of requirements of classes and levels to complete. When we talked about life quests, Jeffrey gave us some insight into what can be set up.

"Whereas we can make them [quests] as complex, by level sixty your life quest might be, you know, do this ritual spell with six other mages at the bottom of Black Rock Spire, summon Raxonox, kill him, bring back his bracers."

The work on ritual spells continues over at Blizzard, it looks like it will only be constrained by the designer's imagination.




 Crafts

Crafting is simple and straightforward in World of Warcraft. The design team has moved to make the adventure not be the chance of success, but rather the gathering of resources and in some cases the location of the crafting.

We sat with our 25th level warlock in the fields outside of the starting zone near Ogrimmar and started to create Strong Troll Blood potions. The interface was clean and easy. You get a list of the types of potions you can create and how many of each that you can create. Then you select the potion that you want to create and your character hunches over and starts crafting. Seconds later you have your potion.

The recipes are color coded to allow you to see which recipes will have a better chance of increasing your skill in that particular creation. At every moment of the crafting, you are getting feedback on how you are doing. The creation is quick, and you always succeed. The question is whether or not you will gain skill points by being successful.

Not only are the crafting skills managed by recipe drops and learning, but there is also recipes that require you to craft the item in a particular place. You may be out on the hunt and come across an anvil located out in the wilderness. The crafting is predicated on where you do certain recipes, so it may be that deep in the heart of the Black Rock Spire is the only place where you can get the legendary boots of gnome punting crafted.

For the craftspeople who wonder how they get their name out on the swords and helms that they craft, each item crafted can have a marker from the creator. This helps to establish the crafter's reputation in game as a supplier of high quality materials, or low quality as the case may be.

Crafting isn't just about the items themselves. Craftspeople will also be able to create objects that augment another item's power. These sorts of crafted objects are designed to give a temporary or permanent boast to an existing item. It may be something like a scope for a blunderbuss, or a patch that increases resistances on a piece of armor for a period of time.

Blizzard keeps a sophisticated loot chart where they track what items will be the best of type for a given level and they work to make sure that while at some levels it may be a crafted item, at others it may be a rare drop. The idea is to create a vibrant economy that has a thriving crafter community.

How Many Tradeskills Can I Master?

This was a discussion that had some input not only from our guide Jeffrey Kaplan but from Blizzard's resident webmasters Geoff Fraizer and Mike Hein. Players in the alpha had found that there were enough interesting tradeskills that they had tried to max three or four of them out. It just wasn't as feasible as doing just two. This is something that can always be tweaked in the beta, but right now it's really designed so that you can be good at one production path like Herbalism and Alchemy or Mining and Blacksmithy. But if you try to do Mining, Blacksmithy, and Engineering, you're going to be stretching it. Nice part is that these skills are re-trainable, so if you decide that the life of a herb hunter is not for you, you can trade in and become a miner instead.

Report by: OneMadOgre





 Places and People

A common question about World of Warcraft is if the various heroes of the previous wars will be included. As we've talked about in our E3 visits, the heros of Warcraft II:Beyond the Dark Portal will be featured in Stormwind Keep. Throughout the world, you will also be able to try to interact with all sorts of characters that appeared throughout the lore.

Rexxar has taken a leave from the Horde and returned to stalking the wilderness of the Barrens. He will make an interesting quest for players to find in the massive lands of Azeroth. Thrall sits on the Warchief throne of the Horde and Sylvanas Windrunner oversees the Forsaken.

We were excited to see these characters rendered for us on screen, but unfortunately, they were not part of the alpha build yet. In true Blizzard style, we were told that one of the only ones that were in right now was Jaina and we could warp there to see her model. Then Jeffrey remembered that they were retouching her art again, and decided to wait until the art was ready to show us.

Even some of the lesser known places and people of Azeroth are being included in the game. The Stonemaul Ogre clan will not only be in the game and friendly to the Horde in the aftermath of the Orc campaign in Frozen Throne, but they will have quests for players as a result of the events that took place in that campaign.

We were able to journey to the nearby city of Ogrimmar. You can see the city from some distance away and it looks fairly impressive. Then you get closer and you realize that you weren't nearly as close as you thought you were and it's very impressive. Then you get closer still and by george if it isn't still farther away then you thought you were and it's just this massive structure of iron and wood. Forbidding and massive.

The challenge there for the designers was to create a city that gave an epic feel, but still was closely positioned so that you didn't feel lost or bored running through the city. Blizzard's artistic style really shines here as things in the world look larger than life to begin with. When the artists try to make it look large, well, the effects are quite awe-inspiring. What doesn't come across at all in the screenshots is the magnitude of the place.

While the macro aspects of the world are impressive, so are the little touches. As a grunt walked past us on patrol, we could have sworn we heard a growl from him. Jeffrey reassured us that this was mostly likely a wolf nearby. But the ambient noises and effects are all over the world. Creatures classified in the world as predators will stalk and attack their prey. They were quite proud of the lion, which would not only stalk and kill gazelles, but would then decide to find some shade and lie down to sleep it off, very similar to the lions of the Serengeti. You begin to get the idea that the designers at Blizzard watch a lot of the history and discovery channels.

Blackrock Spire is an area that has been featured frequently in the press in the last few years. In typical Blizzard style, they have decided to redesign large portions of the dungeons, not completely happy with what they had before. So while there will still be a dragon awaiting the more courageous adventurers at the root of the mountain, it's the path that gets you there that Blizzard wants to make sure is completely solid and enjoyable from the moment you enter.

This attention to detail is brought over to environment effects as well. As we tramped through the snowy regions of Dun Morogh, not only could we see the breath of our Gnome character, we could also see her footprints in the snow.

Report by: OneMadOgre





Interfaces

The minimap is a crucial part of World of Warcraft and contains a lot of valuable information about the world around you. It describes interesting locations around you as well as directional pointers to all of the people in your group. (This came in very handy when we kept losing Mike Hein's Ganon character.)

It does a take a little getting used to when you are not used to the symbology, but in our limited time playing, we quickly got acclimated to checking in on Ganon and Sugah's location.

The interface is largely as we described it in our site. You will be able to customize the controls with XML to map keys to your specific taste. Chat is handled in a window on the bottom left. Currently in the alpha there where only two zone chats, general and trade, but that is easily added to enlarge the selections.

The chat is designed for quick cross reference. No longer will you have to type in the statistics of every item as you find it on the corpses of your defeated enemies. As you loot, each member of your party can see the objects being looted in the chat. If they click on the item they can see a full description of that item. Also, handy for traders, the interface allows you to start a message in the chat window, and then click on an item in your inventory to instantly paste not only the name of the item, but the name of the item linked so that it is also clickable for people to see a complete statistical listing of that item.

Blizzard was of two minds when we came to see them on the idea of an in-game marketplace that facilitated easy trading. On one hand, they wanted to make it as easy as possible to find crafted goods. For this sort of thinking, an ebay like interface in-game would make a lot of sense. On the other hand, there is something to be said for the socialization that occurs when people are seeking out the trade goods. Suffice it to say, that the interface for trading will be simple and easy regardless of which approach Blizzard chooses. That was evident in the tweaks that they had in the interfaces already.

Camera control can frequently be a problem in some 3D games. It can be easy to lose track of what and how you are positioned. We found that Blizzard's camera was very easy and intuitive to use. Whether we were zoomed into the first person or taking a long look from the over the shoulder look, it was quite difficult to get confused on what we were seeing.

At this point in development there is no weapon switch hotkey. To change out your weapons you'll need to open up the paperdoll and drop/drag the new weapon into your hand. This is so far a design decision, we were informed that if they did decide to add weapon hotkey functionality, it would require some balancing and would have to look cool on the screen. (If Blizzard has any buzzwords, they are easy, accessible, and cool.)

A final example of seriously Blizzard takes it's "easy to use" design thoughts. In the previously mentioned Wailing Caverns, there was a debate about the maze like structure of some of the caverns. Some designers thought that mazes were cool and part of the experience. Others thought that they were cool, but only in a single player game and really brought down a group play dynamic. The compromise? Well as Jeffrey finished up the quest, he told us that one of the easter eggs that they were going to let out was that if you looked carefully at the path, the critical path through the dungeon was always marked with mushrooms. As he said this, it became immediately clear to us as well. It was like one of those magic-eye puzzles where you suddenly notice something that, while it seemed obvious now, had completely escaped your notice before. While Jeffrey was undeniable proud of the effect, he wanted to make sure that people knew there were rewards for the party that ventures off the beaten path as well. If you decide to clear out the whole dungeon you will be able to find some rare drops that are quite worth your while to hunt down.

Report by: OneMadOgre





 Game ON!

After spending all morning having Jeffrey drive us around the World of Warcraft, we were finally ready to take the wheel right after a quick lunch spent talking to some of the employees of Blizzard about MMOs we had played in the past and talking a little more about PvP.

The race and class selections open to us at this stage of the Alpha had literally just changed that morning. We'd be allowed to select from the troll, orc, and tauren races and from the shaman, warlock, and warrior. We choose to start play as a troll shaman named "Gunslinger" for our friends out at worldofwar.de

We had bribed Blizzard's community manager, Katricia to play with us by bringing a copy of the old AOL-Neverwinter Nights box and manual for her office. We knew that she was an old veteran of that game and it seemed like a good gift. Now if only we had a good bribe for Jeffrey to add more quests involving Ogres to World of Warcraft. (Name your price, Mr. Kaplan. We can have Lego sets delivered tomorrow.)

Immediately when you start out, there is a fellow waiting for you with that familiar yellow exclamation mark. When we entered, the land was absolutely filled with other characters. Upwards to 240 players during the middle of the day playing with us. It looked like we weren't the only ones taking some time off from work to get some alpha play in.

We got directed on our first quest to head to a nearby cave and get further instructions. Jeffrey told us that the introductions for each race were still being settled. Only a rough introduction for the Undead was in at this time, very similar to the experiences people had at Gencon. Still we had our newbie item explaining our place in the world and signed by Vol'jin, the Darkspear tribe leader.

We ran off to the cave to get our first quest. This was the typical go kill "X" number of beasts quest. In our case, it was to be ten mottled boars. We were back in the field in a matter of seconds and hunting boars.

Being a Shaman we would typically stand off and launch a lightning bolt to singe the creatures hide. If they started far enough off, we'd be able to toss a second bolt of electrical energy at them. We tried a few times to finish them off with a third bolt, but it was hard not to get it interrupted. It was much faster to give them a smack or two or three with the mace we'd come equipped with.

Even with as crowded as the zone was, we didn't really have any troubles with kill stealing or in finding mottled boars to hunt. At one point when we were on the far edge of the valley, we noticed an orc player standing on the ridgeline. He looked down and waved at us, so we waved back and then he bounded off in search of more adventure. We still had four more boars to kill.

Once ten boar carcasses littered the valley floor smote from our mace and cooked from our lighting attacks, we headed back to get our quest reward, choosing the bracers over the boots. As our companion Katricia chose the same. "Better armor value" she said comparing the armor value of three for the bracers to the value of two for the boots.

We had partied with Katricia right about now, although she accepted the invite mostly because she is so polite. "There's really not a reason to group yet, but sure" came the reply from across the conference table. By grouping we could more easily see where she was in the world. Since the zone was new, there were an awful lot of new troll and orcs in this part of the world. (remember, Taurens don't have the same start location as trolls and orcs)

Our second quest had a similar theme, but this time instead of just hunting boars, we were to loot a particular item from the corpse of the lizards that frequented the same area. Eight items and 13 kills later, we were second level and ready for our third quest.

At second level we were offered a talent point to spend as well as some skill points. Not sure what to put the skill points into, we held onto them. In retrospect, probably not the wisest course of action since this character would be vanishing into the ether later that day. The Talent selection was pretty varied. The increased fire magic talent beckoned, but without any fire spells we ended up doing the same thing as Kat and placing the point into increased toughness to buff our hitpoints. Can't go wrong with more hitpoints.

Right about then, Mhein, Senior Web Designer for Blizzard joined our little party. His troll Shaman, Ganon, was a joy to watch. It was evident that Mike had a great grasp of the game. Our third quest was to find Imps by another tunnel entrance and make short work of six of the little buggers. The spawns here were new, and Blizzard commented that this was something that they were very interested in watching, as the spawns seemed a little low for the volume of players. (Blizzard has their own tool for evaluating the world condition in real time, includign spawns, drops, and gold brought into the world.)

While Sugah (Katricia) and I hunted Imps, Ganon (Mhein) raced through his first quest and then came to join us as the lizards he needed for the second quest where in both the initial and the Imp hunting grounds.

Watching Ganon race about was fun. He was always quicker to the attack and that next target that we were. By the end of our time, we had just barely gotten to the point where our second lightning bolt would land. Before that, Ganon would have the creature wiped out before we could even land a second blow. Jumping and racing ahead, Ganon would be off like a shot. "Over here" he'd call as he discovered areas that were not as heavily hunted. We just tried to keep up.

One poor player had gotten past their Warlock quest that gave them an Imp. Since we were hunting Imps, I kept finding my targeting cursor coming over that poor little fellow. Luckily friendly fire is not a problem in those zones, but we can't imagine that we were the only one who hungrily sighted up that little guy with a lightning bolt only to find that he is friendly.

We reached third level but never got a chance to see the quest to it's closure in our ninety minutes of play. We had spent a good three hours with our guide and had chewed up most of our visit before we even got hands on. That seemed like a good decision until we actually got in and playing. Then we thought maybe we should have been more selfish and played longer and been guided less.

Being an alpha in the first hours of release for a new area, Blizzard saw something that they wanted to change immediately and brought the servers down to make that change. Our visit time was short, so we used what little time we had left to go and take a tour of Starcraft:Ghost. More on that in our bonus section later at scraftghost.net






Date : 18 March 2004
WorldofWar.net: 	When did you enter the alpha phase?

vs40fresh:
	

When I began playing the alpha, the first patch (human at the time) had just started. I remember the very day I sent in my NDA. I tried to fax it from my school's fax machine and it didn't work like three times so i was completely frustrated at this point. So i went to Mailbox etc, and faxed it, it ended up costing like 15 bucks, but I know I sure didn't care. I also remember when my NDA was approved and I began downloading it. I was pacing around the room, I skipped work, I had to be at my computer the second it finished. It ended up finishing at about 2am in the morning, so I played till like 3am, and then went to sleep, having school the next day. My first character was a Human Palidin named Servermonk. He's been deleted for some time now. I replaced him with OptimusPrime.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What was the most enjoyable experience you had in the alpha?

vs40fresh:
	

The most enjoyable thing in the alpha to me, was when the file counter was at 10 and my heart was just pounding, it was like heaven almost. The second the main menu popped up, with the world of warcraft theme song playing, I was about the happiest person in the world. Then I logged in to find many Blizzard employees playing the alpha, as not too many people were in yet. I remember seeing Zileas for one.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What was the most frustrating and how did Blizzard fix it?

vs40fresh:
	

The most frustrating, would probably have to be divided into three separate events. The first one being, when they patched once, one of the later patches, the world had a collision problem, which was a client side fix only. They implemented a new collision system because people would jump over mountains to get places.

The second would have to be in the tri-horde push (tauren, trolls, and orc) the server was going down like crazy, and when it came back up, everything would be fine, except there wouldn't be any NPCs or mobs.

The third most frustrating thing would have to have been when warriors, due to a shield blocking bug, were able to only take 1hp damage from any mob, so they could tank large amounts of high level mobs with no problem.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What was the most humorous thing that happened to you in the alpha?

vs40fresh:
	

The most humorous thing, was when the world server went down, but we were still in the world, (usually when you go too far out in the ocean, a fatigue bar will appear and will begin to hurt you when it depletes). So I swam across the entire ocean before the server came back up. I never did see anything inside the maelstrom, the ocean sort of just ends towards the center and falls off hard like a cliff. When the server came back up, I was back where I was when it had originally crashed. But I can safely say that I am one of the few that ever has and ever will swim across the entire ocean.

Another hilarious thing was in the first patch, there was this tradeskill, it still exists, but it was called survival training, and you can make campfires with it. Well our guild leader kept finding afk people and making fires underneath them and killing them. It was chaos haha, I couldn't stop laughing.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What is the most exciting thing for you as the game moves from Alpha to Beta?

vs40fresh:
	

The most exciting thing, for me, is that as the game progresses we will see pvp implementation, as this wasn't in the alpha (save for consentual dueling).
 

WorldofWar.net:
	How often did you get to play the Alpha? Any problems keeping your real life together?

vs40fresh:
	

The first week of playing did lots of damage, I barely ate, except for the occasional pop tart. I did shoddy jobs on my class assignments, and so on. After that point, it became the norm for me, so I began to manage my time more appropriately, and now that the alpha is over, playing the game is no big deal for me, because I know i'll just get to play it again later.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	What feature that was unavailable in the Alpha are you most looking forward to in the Beta?

vs40fresh:
	

Like the most exciting question posed previous to this one, Pvp will be the biggest unavailable feature I'm looking forward to. We were unable to test both the hunter and the druid in the alpha, so I'm really looking forward to playing those, as they seem like the most unique classes of all of the classes available.
 

WorldofWar.net:
	Thanks for the interview VS40Fresh! Looking forward to hooking up with you in the beta.




Freakshow Geekshow
Date : 5 August 2004

As we both wait for WoW to come out, my lovely wife and I have been trying to busy ourselves with other pastimes. She’s been playing a game called "Kya" on the PS2. In a fit of nostalgia, I’ve been toying with Diablo II (yet again) and Warcraft III. I even tried revisiting some of the old MMORPGs that I’ve played in the past. Blech. To be honest, none of this is very fulfilling. We need a new, addicting, immersive MMORPG to occupy us and, as everyone knows, there is just a dearth of good titles out there. We got so bored, we actually decided to spend time working in the back yard earlier today. I cleaned out the shed. She did some gardening.

I know, I know. I couldn’t believe it either. That’s what boredom will do to you.

We have vowed that until WoW comes out and we secrete ourselves in our dank little cubby holes, spending every waking minute obsessively playing characters that don’t really exist in a virtual world that doesn’t really exist, we would get out more. So every weekend we try to do something unusual, interesting, and different. To make ourselves feel better, we think of it as something of a quest. This is something of a self-deceptive trick, really. We are both trying to keep the role-playing geek inside of each of us under control. It’s sort of working. Sort of.

Our most recent expedition involved going to the "Body Art Expo", a convention of tattoo artists, piercing professionals, and body modification specialists. As we had just recently attended a local sci-fi/fantasy convention, the differences between these subsets of humanity really stood out. Rather than attempt to break this down sociologically or scientifically, instead I figured I’d just make fun of the whole darned thing. Thus was born my insightful literary analysis, in which I dissect the aggregate convention behaviors of the sci-fi geeks and the tattoo freaks. To add to the excitement, I’ll even keep score.

I. Location and Whatnot

The sci-fi convention was located in nearby Pasadena, a truly lovely suburban setting. There is no on-site parking, but this only bothered those of us with cars. There were plenty of skateboards, collapsible scooters, rollerblades, Vespas and other forms of nerd transportation in evidence, so we both began to suspect that everyone but us knew about the parking situation beforehand. When we went to buy our tickets, we quickly discovered that there was no line. After waking the girl in the ticket sales booth (tapping on the glass with car keys worked pretty well), we learned that everyone but us had ordered their tickets long, long ago from a computer far, far away.

The body art expo was an entirely different matter. This little event was located in a part of California called the Inland Empire. For those of you not familiar with that part of the country, saying "the Inland Empire" is a lot like saying "that 40,000 acre trailer park just east of here." It’s easy to get lost in a trailer park of that size, let me assure you. We did, twice. After busting out the maps and letting my wife blow off some steam at passing motorists (her innate talent with profanity is truly impressive), we found the convention center.

Only it’s not a convention center, it’s a fairgrounds. The biggest event they hold there every year is a livestock competition. As we were soon to find out, that’s so fitting it’s poetic.

There is just plenty of parking at the fairgrounds, let me assure you. We found a parking space something like, oh, 800 freakin’ yards from the entrance. For this kind of convenience, we paid six bucks.

There was also a big, long line to buy tickets at $16 per person. I asked the bearded lady in front of us if she had tried to buy tickets online. She looked me straight in the eye and told me she was on the line.

Overall, the sci-fi folks did a much better job with all of this, simply because it was in a much nicer location, was much closer to our home, and they didn’t charge me six dollars to walk seven parsecs just to get inside. Freakshow 0, Geekshow 1.

II. First Contact

We’d been to sci-fi conventions before, and knew what to expect. Upon entering the front door, we were greeted by friendly nerds who gave us a bag full of cheap schwag (a couple of posters, a map, and a schedule of events). Then there was the gauntlet of costumed heroes that had gathered near the entrance. Darth Vader? Check. A klingon? Check. Elven princess? You betcha. Storm trooper? Yes, there were four of these guys; they all hung out together.

By comparison, the folks that organized the tattoo extravaganza didn’t seem to do very much in terms of welcoming anybody. There were no flyers, schedules of events, or maps of the location. Nobody gave us any cheap junk, loot, or schwag. There were guys in uniforms at the front door, but they weren’t storm troopers. They were security guards. And there were lots of them.

The geekfest was the clear cut winner here. They were friendlier, gave us some cheap goodies as we entered, and overall welcomed us with their skinny, pale, open arms. By contrast, the tattoo people didn’t give us jack. In fact, they frightened jack a little bit and made him feel pretty unwelcome. Freakshow 0, Geekshow 2.

III. Eat or Be Eaten

Hands down, the food at the body art convention was much, much better. We had a lot of choices: hot dogs, pastrami sandwiches, hamburgers, pizza, sodas, you name it. They also served beer. From the looks of things, they served lots and lots of it, too. The idea of serving beer at this event has to be right up there with serving beer at Oakland Raiders games and English soccer matches. Just plain brilliant.

There was also an obvious conspiracy. Every booth offered their main sandwich/hotdog/whatever for six dollars, and an unimpressive combo for $9.50. I suspected the Illuminati. My thought it might be the Democrats, what with the high prices and everything.

At the sci-fi festival, there was precious little food to be had. I guess the promoters figured everyone could rollerblade or ride their Vespas to a nearby eatery. There were some soda machines, and we managed to find a coffee vendor (and this was one close call; without regular doses of coffee, the wife gets kind of, uh, edgy. The first geek to have pissed her off in such an enraged, super-powered state would have died a horrible death). The coffee lady even got into the spirit of the event. For a mere four dollars, she’d whip up a nice Klingon Cappuccino or a tasty Legolas Latte for you.

The freaks win this one. The coffee at the sci-fi convention was both a lifesaver and thematically correct, but the plethora of conspiratorially overpriced food at the body art show was just plain better. Freakshow 1, Geekshow 2.

IV. The Shows

The sci-fi people put on plenty of shows, and many of these were actually interesting. Bruce Campbell, Walter "Chekov" Koenig, and some people from Buffy the Vampire Slayer were there. Sadly, the raging queen of space, George "Sulu" Takai, wasn’t on the schedule. Oh well.

After tolerating a few speeches from actors/producers/writers I’d never heard of, who’d acted in/produced/written TV shows that I’d never seen, good old Captain Kirk himself got up on stage and spoke. This was more than a little surprising; Shatner is funnier than a barrel of tribbles. He’s also a gifted, insightful, and emotional speaker. We found good seats (which were surprisingly cushy and comfortable), drank our Mandalorian Mocha, and found ourselves captivated by the Q&A with good old James T.

The shows at the tattoo convention were so terrible, they could almost be described as antagonistic. Have you ever watched a tattoo contest? It's like watching a flea circus from the bleachers. Unless you bring a big freakin’ telephoto lens with you, you aren’t going to see a darned thing. People walk up on stage, show their tats to the judges, and then turn around and show them to the crowd, 50 feet away. Since even a big tattoo is indistinct at a range of about 15 feet, we couldn’t see jack. I thought one guy had a nice tattoo of a spider on his chest; my wife thought it was colorful koi fish. Another lady had an apparently impressive tattoo of either a child’s face or a nice Celtic cross on her thigh; we really couldn’t tell which. After watching half a dozen people show us arms, legs, or backs covered with vague splotches of blue, orange, and green, we gave up.

To make matters worse, there wasn’t a chair in the place. I’m not kidding; they had a stage, and put Old Man Larry the Sword Swallower up there, but you couldn’t sit and watch him even if you were one of the few people who finds sword swallowing interesting. You had to walk up toward the stage and stand there until either you got tired or the boredom of the sucky show sank in. This was, I must admit, consistent with the unique spirit of hospitality that permeated the entire event.

A quick tip for anyone that would want to follow in the esteemed entertainment shoes of Larry the Sword Swallower: if you are going to get up on stage shirtless, you should at least get into shape. I don't think that Larry has put in a good workout since before the Crimean War. The combination of skinny, chubby, and old really distracts people from your, uh, talent.

Later in the day, we watched some Playboy playmate get airbrushed by a "famous body artist." Aside from the fact that I can’t think of anyone who ever got famous doing "body art", there were two problems. One, she was wearing a bikini when she got painted; this disappointed nearly everyone. Two, this was about as interesting as watching paint dry. Oh wait, it was watching paint dry.

The geekshow put on much, much better shows. The freakshow promoters put on such horrible crap that I actually became grateful they forgot to bring chairs for people to sit in. Freakshow 1, Geekshow 3.

V. Schwag

Pretty quickly, we got the impression that the sci-fi people had been putting on conventions for a long, long time. They found a way to charge for everything. Aside from the crappy posters we got at the door, nothing else was free. There was a time at the convention when a guy handed me a business card, and I saw him struggle with the temptation to charge me a buck for the darned thing.

Body art folks don’t give out business cards. Instead, they give out flyers or stickers. Stickers are a lot more popular. Since these folks are all about self expression, as well as self promotion, and a sticker costs as much as a flyer to make, there were stickers everywhere. I have stickers advertising for tattoo artists from Hawaii and piercers from Cleveland. Most of them are, quite frankly, pretty cool.

When it comes to schwag, the freakshow gets the nod. Freakshow 2, Geekshow 3.

 

VI. The Crowd

Let’s be honest: when going to a convention, half the fun is watching your fellow attendees. This was probably as competitive as it got – both the freaks and the geeks really know how to dress to impress.

The sci-fi folks didn’t let us down. We ran into klingons, elves, people in renaissance outfits, princesses, vulcans, storm troopers, and everything else. A couple actually dressed up their daughters as hobbits; another guy wore Darth Maul makeup; a third dressed up as Obi Wan. (My wife tried to instigate a fight. "Obi says that Mrs. Maul is a fat ugly biotch. You gonna stand for that?" Sadly, it didn't work.) Over all, you gotta give these sci-fi folks credit where credit is due, they know how to dress for a geek-o-rama.

The tattoo folks were equally impressive. There was a father, displaying his numerous tats, accompanied by his 16 year old daughter, sporting a huge green mohawk. There were many people who were surprisingly creative with their tattoos. Imagine an octopus tattoo on a man's shoulder, extending it's tentacles across his chest, back, and down both arms. That kind of tat is impressive. We ran into the body art equvalent of Darth Maul. No, he didn't have spikes on his head, he had his whole face pierced. It was quite a look -- he had chrome spikes extending from his cheeks, lips, and chin. It didn't make the girlies want to kiss him, but it was a real attention-getter. Beat that, Sith lord.

There were lots of folks with stylized facial tattoos. There were spectacular 3-D tattoos that really look like a lizard, scorpion, or whatnot is standing on someone's arm. There was a woman with a nicely done dragon swirling up her leg, from ankle to hip. There were lot of folks who had tatted themselves thematically. The idea of putting a dozen random tats on your body is, apparently, passe. The trend now is to have them all match up -- sea creatures, space themes, wildlife, etc.

 

We had to give this one to the freaks on two counts. First, except for the hobbit children, the geeks really didn't do anything really new. Second, in the battle of the Darth Mauls, the freaks guy was both better and scarier. Freakshow 3, Geekshow 3.

VII. Celebs

The geekshow had lots and lots of celebs, both major and minor. I met the guy who played Frank Pool in 2001: A Space Odyssey (he's the astronaut that Hal kills when he does some repairs outside the ship). My wife and I got a autographed photo from Jeanette Goldstein. Who is Jeanette? She is a 55 year old Jewish grandmother from Encino. She's most famous for playing the ultimate in badass latinas, Vasquez, in Aliens. You just gotta respect her acting ability; that is one unforgettable role. We saw Don "The Dragon" Wilson, famous for his B-movie roles, and as the announcer for the Ultimate Fighting Championship.

The freakshow didn't have any real celebrities. They would say things like "This is the same technique that Scratch Adams uses," or "This goo is recommended by Kat McFee". My wife and I played along and nodded knowingly, but we had no idea who the heck Scratch Adams or Kat McFee were. In fact, I kind of got the impression that the tattoo people were developing a new advertising technique: the non-celebrity endorsement. The reason you can get away with these crappy endorsements is no one knows who these guys are either.

Anyway, the body art expo seemed oh-so-complete when the only really famous person in the place, Dennis Rodman, showed up. He got tatted while his girlfriend sat nearby. She's skinny, has fake boobs, and judging by her tattoos, she's Irish. And I think we can all agree that what Rodman really, really needs is one more tat. Yeah.

In fact, when you take a look at him, Dennis is pretty much a testimonial about what not to do in terms of body art. He has more poorly placed, ugly tats, combined with unattractive piercings, than any three other people combined. There should be a rule; if you have bad taste, do not get tattoos. This is because you cannot get rid of them. You can only cover them up with bigger tattoos. And unless you've gotten some kind of good-taste therapy (does that exist?), getting a cover up is about to make your problem worse. Anyway, it's a vicious syndrome, and Rodman is its posterboy. In fact, to "pull a Rodman" should be a maxim for getting a bad tat, kind of like "pulling a Homer".

The geeks won this one, simply because they actually had celebs at their convention. Oh, don't get me wrong, Bob Crapee (who?) was at the tattoo convention, recommending some ink or something, but in terms of cool, Vasquez just kicks his ass. Freakshow 3, Geekshow 4.

VIII. Behavior

The geeks don't have really bad behavior. They only have embarassingly dorky behavior. Be honest: when some guy calling himself "Lord Othar Bearcrusher" walks by, and makes some bad role-playing remark to one of the merchants, don't you just cringe? Hearing some actor overdo his lines is kind of funny; hearing some vaguely smelly guy who still lives with his mom say "Alas, my lady, methinks your wares are too expensive," is embarassing to watch. It's even worse when my petite little wife could obviously kick his lorship's ass, sword or no sword.

Now the freaks, they do have clear-cut bad behavior. The behavior gets worse in direct proportion to how much beer is sold. Trust me; this is scientifically verifiable. For example, I noticed that the tattoo people aren't afraid to whistle as loudly as possible to get a friend's attention. It does not matter if others are standing, sitting, or eating right next to the whistler; extremely loud whistling is, apparently, perfectly acceptable. Nor does it matter if you could walk 5 steps to tap your friend on the shoulder to get his attention. Whistling 8 times, as loudly as possible, is apparently much preferred. When he finally hears you, laughing by all involved parties is the inevitable result.

We also noticed that a common greeting among the tattooed set is to stand near your friend, and simply flip him off until he notices you. If the mere act of extending your middle finger, or even mouthing "F--- you" in his direction, isn't enough, say "Hey!" repeatedly until he notices. Again, laughter by all involved parties is the inevitable result.

I'm not sure how to score this one. The tattoo folks clearly win in the bad behavior category, but is that actually winning? Or is it the sci-fi peeps who win, because they have better, if dorkier, behavior? I dunno, but I do know that it's not worth straining my cranium over, so I gave it to the freaks. Freakshow 4, Geekshow 4.

IX. Money and My Honey

As I mentioned before, neither event was free. When it came to costs, the sci-fi promoters are clearly not afraid to ask you for the big money. We spent $32.00 each at the door, another seven bucks to park in some private lot a few blocks away, four dollars for the wierd space coffee (for her), three bucks for two 16 oz. Cokes (for me), twenty bucks to Vasquez for an autographed photo (it wasn't free, but she's funny, and she was cool to us), ten dollars for an iso-chip keychain (the wife wanted it, but I've never seen it since), and then we spent a few bucks on other miscellaneous junk. The total cost was $140.00.

The tattoo convention cost us a mere $16.00 each at the door. Althought the parking lot was in the next county, it still cost us six bucks. We spent twenty bucks on food (to fund the Illumanati's global schemes, I'm sure), fifteen for a "Bad Pig" t-shirt, five bucks for some really cheap sunglasses (I lost my old pair last week), and then forty bucks for a page of flash art.

Let me explain the "flash art" thing. Most people pick the tats they want from a big piece of thick paper, upon which are drawn a dozen or so examples. I choose my tats carefully; they are symbolic. Placement is also an issue. My tats have to be just so. My wife is entirely different. She picks hers based entirely upon emotion. It's kind of a "I like that one. How much to put that on my shoulder?" Anyway, my wife saw one she wanted, but we didn't have the time or money to get it done right then. She feared she'd never see that piece of flash again. Being the gallant and quick thinking husband that I am, I bought the page.

Bottom line? The whole event cost us $140.00.

Amazingly, we always end up spending waaaaay to much money at conventions. We always buy some junk, spend too much on food, and the tickets aren't cheap. Although the tattoo convention charged a bit less for admission, there were a lot of additional costs. Overall, since we somehow ended up spending the same amount at each of these shows, this was a tie. Freakshow 5, Geekshow 5.

X. The Fun Factor

The was a number of fun things to do at the sci-fi convention. There was a LOT of variety of the action figures, models, comic books, props, and whatnot that we looked at them all for hours. At some point I realized that I had paid the $64.00 price of admission so the two of us could go shopping, but at least it was shopping for stuff we like. We met a couple of cool folks, saw a decent show, and the whole event was pretty professionally done. Even the stormtroopers were good sports, posing for photos, frisking fellow conventioneers, and generally stormtrooping around.

The most fun thing about the tattoo convention was the people. I've griped about the whistling but, to be honest, we found ourselves laughing at the whole flip-you-off-to-say-hi thing. The tattoos and piercings were, for the most part, amazing. Sure, some folks took things too far. There was one particularly ugly couple with ugly tattoos wearing incredibly ugly, revealing clothes -- I'm still emotionally scarred because of them. There was a gay couple that didn't have any impressive tattoos, but used the convention as an excuse to walk around shirtless in short shorts. There were folks who had their tattoos done in 1969...they really shouldn't be showing those blobs of blue ink off, but they were. But overall, the tats, the piercings, the outfits, and the whole experience was actually highly entertaining.

This was a tough one. My wife and I talked this over for a while. But the thing that put it over the top was the people-watching at the tattoo convention. The freaks are, after all, freaks. And they didn't disappointment. The tattoo convention was just more fun for the both of us, so it wins this one. Freakshow 6, Geekshow 5.

Alright, that's about it for this week, folks. Gratz to the freaks. Until WoW is released, or I get into the beta, I'm trying to keep busy playing crap I don't want to play or doing junk I just don't want to do. Sadly for you, gentle reader, I'll probably keep writing about it... Come on Blizzard, save everyone's sanity.

Article by The Pig





Junk for the Junkie
Date : 22 August 2004

If you are reading this article, you are more than just your typical, run-of-the-mill, average gamer. If you stop and think about it for a moment, you're checking a fan site -- albeit, a big, well-run, full-featured fan site -- about World of Warcraft, a game that hasn't even been released yet. I'd bet that, like me, you also check several sites just like this one, several times a day, looking for WoW info. Like me, you're a MOG addict, and you're sensing that WoW is just the fix you need.

I'm right there with you, my brother. For better or worse, you and I are kindred spirits.

But this ain't AA, NarcAnon, Dope Smokers Who Don't Have Jobs Anonymous, or some sort of I'm Addicted to Drugs You Never Even Heard Of support group. Not that you'd want one, but I don't think there's a cure for MOG addiction. You just want WoW to be released. Sadly, the best information that anyone has indicates the game will be released November 15th. That is a heck of a long time for a MOG addict to wait.

The best I can do to help pass the time is to recommend some alternatives to keep you busy. These are pastimes, both major and minor, recommended by me (and a couple of other fellow addicts I happen to know) to settle your jitters for a few hours. They may not be WoW, but they are guaranteed to keep the shakes and sweats away, if only for a while. I know you're jonesin'. I feel your pain. These distractions will help, at least a little.

Doom 3

Damn, this game is scarier than crap. No, really, I don't care how scared of crap you've ever been in your life, I guarantee that this game is way scarier than that. It's got spooky lighting effects, eye-popping visuals, and monsters that are uglier than that girlfriend you had in eighth grade. There are scary monsters, dangerous monsters, intelligent monsters, and fast, bloodthirsty monsters. The weapons are just plain cool. The levels are intriguing, and every level demands that you think on your feet.

In fact, the gameplay is really realistic, especially for a first person shooter. See something moving in the shadows? Put away your shotgun, and shine your flashlight on it, just for a second. What's the matter? Afraid to sling your boomstick? Hehe, get used to it. In much the same way, you'll find yourself counting your shotgun rounds carefully, and cursing yourself when you waste one. Those things are lifesavers. If you run out, you're dead. Or undead. Whatever.

You'll also find yourself desperately looking in every corner for a hidden cache of armor shards, medi-packs, bullets, and other whatnot. And before you open a door, you'll realize that you are hesitating, your heart is pumping, and that you''ve just gotten a little adrenaline dump. Playing Doom 3 is like being trapped in the best sci-fi/horror movie you've ever seen. If you cry out like a frightened little girl, don't be ashamed. Other gamers have done the same. Well, except me, of course. I'd never scream like that. No way.

Play it at night, just before you go to bed. I freakin' dare you. I guarantee you won't be dreaming of WoW.

Expand Your Mind

There is no pastime on earth quite so fun as learning something new, is there? The only way to learn anything is by asking questions. If you want to learn about astronomy, for example, I'd suggest asking your boss, your girlfriend, the school principal, or your mom some questions about it. Try these:

"What color is Uranus?"

"Is it true that NASA sent a probe to Uranus?"

"Comparatively speaking, is Uranus big or little?"

"Is it normal for Uranus to be blue?"

"I had a wierd dream last night. In it, I found myself staring at Uranus for hours. Then suddenly, I woke up. Do you think that means anything?"

"How many astronauts have been on Uranus?"

"My friend Dave bet me that Uranus is cold. I bet him that Uranus is hot. Which one of us is right?"

Warcraft III

Believe it or not, I never played WCIII before a few weeks ago. Much to my surprise, this game isn't just a real-time strategy game. The campaigns each have storylines that are rich, have great characters, and are just plain compelling. In fact, playing the heroes -- Arthas, Thrall, et al -- becomes a lot like a good RPG. I found myself lusting after better gear, looking for better drops, and worrying that I'd gimped my avatar by choosing some weak skills.

But that's not all. After playing the campaigns, the straight RTS part of the game has more balance than a female Russian gymnast. (You know the ones -- 14 years old, three and a half feet tall, and more muscles than you and I combined?) The point is that whether you play the humans, the undead, the orcs, or everyone’s favorite effeminate pansies, the elves, the game is fair. There is no simple choice; playing the undead has just as many advantages, disadvantages, perks, and irritants as does playing the ferocious orcs. Even the elven sissyboys will kick your arse if you're not careful. The Frozen Throne expansion just adds some frosty goodness to the game, kind of like a nice frozen dessert after a great meal. Think of the Frozen Throne as a chilled chocolate mousse -- a chocolate mousse of war. Oh, never mind.

Napoleon Dynamite

I recommend this film for two reasons. The first is that it has the best single dance scene I’ve ever seen in any movie, ever. No, really; you’ll laugh so hard you’ll wet your pants. You’ll have stomach cramps for a week. You’ll love this movie for this one scene, and this one scene alone.

The second reason I recommend it is because it is an exercise in exploring painful dorkiness. Not just ordinary dorkiness, either, but truly deep-seated, chronic dorkiness. There are some really funny moments. Unfortunately, most of these are the I’m not laughing with you, I’m laughting at you variety. In dorkiness, there is humor, and this movie painfully proves it.

One quick note, however. This movie is made by the guys at MTV. They make solid rock videos, they make great TV shows (like Jackass), they make great clones/rip-offs of their own great TV shows (like Bam’s Slams, and Wyld Boyz), and they promote the movies they produce like nothing I’ve ever seen. They are truly gifted film promoters. That is not the same as being truly gifted film makers. These folks simply cannot make a thoroughly good movie. They made The Real Cancun, Jackass: The Movie, and now Napoleon Dynamite. All three have their moments, but you wouldn’t call any of the three "masterpieces". You wouldn’t call them "art". You’d even hesitate to even glorify any of them as a "student film". In fact, I've long suspected that every film these guys ever made was shot in it's entirety with a $300 video camera by three semi-drunk college guys and spliced together on an old MacIntosh. In short, don't expect Napoleon to be the next Citizen Kane -- just enjoy it for the geek-o-rama that it is.

Become a Ladies Man

If there's anything I know a lot about, it's how to be a ladies' man. So here's some sound advice I've gleaned from personal experience, to help my fellow guys out there get some chicks to spend time with.

1. Buy a copy of Maxim magazine and some hair gel. Tousle your hair with the gel. Look at the guys in the magazine. If your hair looks like theirs, stop. If not, tousle again. Keep going until you look like one of those male models.

2. Buy a Ferrari convertible. (If you can't afford one, buy a 1986 Camaro with a T-top. Everyone knows that chicks simply cannot resist a Camaro with a T-top.)

3. Go to a used clothing store, and buy a silk shirt. If it's a size or two too small, that's good. It'll make you look both more Euro and more muscular.

4. While at the store, pick up a few gold chains. A big medallion is a bonus.

5. Put on the shirt, but don't button the top three or, if you're feeling extremely bold, four buttons. Put on all of the gold chains, with medallions, that you picked up earlier. Check your hair, and re-tousle if necessary.

6. Drive your Ferrari/Camaro to a hot local nightclub, where celebrities and supermodels hang out. If you're feeling especially cool, hop out without opening the doors, and toss the valet your keys and $20.

7. Be confident. Say "I'm a big old stud" to yourself. Do not say it out loud.

8. Find an appropriately self-absorbed woman; walk up to her and say "I won the 1993 New Jersey State Disco Championship. Wanna dance?" If that doesn't work, try these proven conversation starters:

"Wanna come to my place and see my collection of pogs and stickers?"

"Rehab was a good experience for me. I met a lot of nice people."

"I used to play D&D a lot. I had a lvl 31 wizard named Wolfson. What kind of character did you play?"

"I'm going to be feeding a live rat to my python later this week. Wanna come over?"

"I just installed an an overclocked nVidea 9950XL Ultra with 512Mb of dedicated video memory. I can get 34frames per second with Doom 3 running at 1600 x 1200!"

"You were a cheerleader? So was I!"

And there you have it. Congratulations, you've now got game!

Diablo II

I know you’ve already played it. Play it again. It’s worth it. And 15 minutes into your first quest, you’ll find yourself immersed in the game like a big vat of jello. Gooey, undead jello, but jello nonetheless. Enjoy.

The Assistant

If you get Andy Dick’s sense of humor, this show will crack you up. He rips off every reality show ever made, and he does it hilariously. The best part of the show is the fact that the 20 year old contestants put up with all kinds of abuse, get "clipped", are forced into rediculously contrived situations, and are made to feel terrible about how they handled things. The "winner" gets the world’s worst reward: they really become Andy’s personal assistant.

AvP

Wifey and I just saw this one today. Since it's opening day, we had to go to a matinee. Because of this, we saved a total of two dollars. That's half the price of a white chocolate mocha. Wooot!

The bad news is that the first 20 minutes of this film is about as interesting as a John Kerry speech. (Well, it's just as boring and sloooooow, but it has less lying). The other problem is that the star of this film is about as lame and nondescript as any I've ever seen. I cannot tell you her name; I can only assure you this isn't her breakthrough performance.

Having said that, this turns into a pretty rockin' sci-fi shoot 'em up. The predators are lumbering powerhouses; the aliens are stealthy, formidible, and scary; the humans are lunchmeat. The special effects are hot, the action is smokin', and the fights are intense. It's worth the ten bucks you'll spend for the ticket. (And if you still manage to get a girl to go with you, despite all the bass-ackward advice I gave earlier, it'll be worth the twenty. You'll even get some handy-holdy during the scary parts -- woohoo!!)

Ok, folks, that's all the recommendations I can come up with. I'm still trying to kill time, waiting for WoW to come out, just like you are. If you've got any ideas on how to pass the time between now and November 15th, I'd be happy to hear them. Us junkies need to help each other out, right?

Article by The Pig





Upside Downside
Date : 9 September 2004

Advertisement
I’m bugged. I’m not sure what it is, exactly, but there are a number of things that are just getting under my skin. I strongly suspect that a lot of this has to do with the fact that I’m not playing WoW. I had also suspected that a lot of this had to do with the fact that I have PMS, but then I remembered that I’m a guy.

Since it’s bad form to write an entire article just ranting about stuff you hate (isn’t that what message boards are for?) I figured that I’d look on the brighter side of things as well. Besides, I’ve really been trying to see the glass as half full in my life in general, and not just feed the bitterly sarcastic (albeit funny) side of my personality. Thus was born this article, Upside Downside. Enjoy.

The WoW beta

Downside: I’m not in the WoW beta. Because of this, I cannot seem to satisfy my inner game geek. I just know that if I were in the beta, I’d be happy. Since I’m not, I’m not.

Upside: My wife still speaks to me. As soon as I get into WoW, this will immediately cease. Thus not playing WoW is helping my marriage. And this is good.

Swimnastics

Downside: I never realized before this week that the Olympics consists of just two sports: swimming and gymnastics. Maybe it’s just me, but I thought the Olympics consisted of a wide variety of unusual and interesting competitive events. You know, things like archery, judo, fencing, wrestling, boxing, shot-putting, tae kwan do, sculling, kayaking, and a whole bunch of others. Apparently not.

If you are stuck watching the Olympics on NBC, prime time Olympic coverage is limited to covering only swimnastics. Thanks to NBC’s stunning coverage, every possible prelim was broadcast. Hours and hours of pale, hairless, muscular Olympians swam to the far edge of the pool, and back again. After doing this several times, some of these people (usually Americans) got a laurel wreath put on their heads and a big medallion put around their necks. I was sometimes advised by the excited announcer that this or that person holds the world record in 400 meter breast stroke, and overcame a serious sinus problem to win gold this year. Ummm, wow, talk about overcoming adversity.

Just about the time that I thought I could no longer contain my excitement while watching my fourth prelim of the two-man mixed sidestroke relay, NBC announcers excitedly interrupted the broadcast and cut to the women’s vault or the men’s pommel horse competition. Since I’d just watched five straight days of women vaulting and men pommelling, I figured we were done with that. Not so. The stuff I’d been watching had been the team competition. What I was watching now was the individual competitions. Lucky me, there was lots and lots more gymnastics to be covered. After watching for a couple of hours, the announcers again cut in and switched us to another exciting breaking Olympic story -- some swimmers had just won gold in the freestyle unshaven-chest long pants division. That’s a new category this year.

Upside: After a week and a half of watching endless preliminary mixed pairs one armed backstroke relays, I figured out that if you watch the Olympics during the day, you get to see a few of the more interesting sports. I actually watched ten whole minutes of Rulon Gardner wrestling. Immediately afterward, they had to cut back to 90 uninterrupted minutes of preliminary/team/individual/exhibition balance beam competition, but that‘s not looking on the bright side, so I won‘t mention it. No siree, I won’t. Shush.

Bad, Naughty, Evil CSRs at Dell

Downside: Five months ago, I bought a laptop from Dell. It took them nearly a month to get it to me. It had a technical problem, so I sent it back. They promptly lost all trace of it. Over time, they shuffled me around to about half a dozen customer service representatives, who advised me they’d look into it, then never got back to me. A couple of weeks ago, after a serious all-day tussle with the most senior CSR I could find, I finally got my two thousand dollars back. Well, after an additional six day delay, but whatever.

Upside: While Dell was taking their sweet time losing, then finding, then losing, then refunding my money, technology improved considerably. Therefore, the moment that money got back into my account I went out and bought a nice, beefy, hard core, gaming laptop that outperforms that ugly ol’ Dell hands down. And because Dell treated me like crap, I bought it from one of Dell’s competitors. I’m tempted to say "Eat that, Michael Dell", but that wouldn’t be positive, so I won’t. No way.

Scary Doom 3

Downside: Doom 3 makes the aforementioned laptop crash every other level. I don’t know why, but if you spend $2100 on a shiny new laptop, anything short of a thermonuclear war shouldn’t make it crash.

Upside: It’s still a rockin’ laptop, and it rocks hard. I actually prefer it’s performance to the lame box that I call my desktop. You know the one; it was cutting edge and extreme when I bought it six months ago. Today you can buy it at Costco for $299.00. But that’s not positive, so I won’t be mentioning that here. No no no.

The Evil Empire of SOE

Upside: Sony Online Entertainment recently banned a bunch of folks for duping credits in SWG. Truly, some folks were guilty, and should have had their credits stripped from them. Instead, SOE decided to permanently ban the dupers, along with anyone they’d exchanged duped credits with. This means that if you sold an Uberlazer 25x Longscope Particle Beam Rifle for 150 imperial credits to some duper, you got your account banned too. Nice, huh?

In response to this outright bizarre treatment, some folks organized an in-game protest. MUDs and MOGs have a long tradition of these such protests -- it’s a great way of communicating customer satisfaction to a game company. SOE, true to its roots, threatened to shut down the zone in which the protest took place.

This continues SOE’s long tradition of treating people like absolute crap, while simultaneously sucking every last penny out of them. Why do they do this? Truly, there have been many attempts to figure it out, and no one can. But this is a tradition that goes back to the birth of Everquest. In fact, the stories of mistreatment of its customers are so numerous it would be difficult to recount them all.

The real upside to all this is that SOE pulled this little beauty just a few months before they release their newest MOG, Everquest II. Since WoW and EQII are going to be direct competitors, and most folks recognize SOE as the evil empire of online gaming, this ain’t exactly going to be good for their business. Ha ha ha to you, SOE.

Downside: After writing the above three paragraphs, I have no chance whatsoever of getting into the EQII beta. Ha ha ha to me, Pig.

My New iPod

Upside: My wife and I recently made a friendly little wager, and I won. The prize was a new iPod. Yay for me!

Downside: We went and picked up "my" new iPod. My wife picked out a new pink one. She also picked out half a dozen new accessories for it, all of which are so feminine, I cannot possibly be seen with the darn thing.

Upside: She made a nice play list for me, incorporating a bucket load of songs I really like.

Downside: Whenever I try to use the darn thing in public, people stare at me. I can just feel them asking themselves questions about my newly ambiguous sexuality. I’ve tried acting extra masculine ("Did you see the Rams game last night?") when I’m out with my shiny pink iPod, but it doesn’t seem to be working.

Double Dirty Downside: My always supportive bride suggested that I "just quit fighting it." She actually tried to get me to put on some short shorts and a nice cut-off t-shirt, wear the iPod, and take her Chihuahua for a walk. Since we live in Los Angeles, she assured me, no one would look twice.

FrankenKerry’s Cryin’

Disclaimer: I don’t hate John Kerry. I just think he is really, really easy to make fun of. So I do. (Does that make me a bad person? Hehe)

Upside: It is funnier than crap to which John Kerry whine and cry like a little girl over the fact that most of his fellow Viet Nam vets hate his guts.

Downside: I’m not sure there is a downside to this.

My Plane Ride

Downside: I’m writing this article on a plane flying from our New York vacation back home to Los Angeles. The guy in front of me has his seat back, and this keeps me from opening my laptop all the way. This functionally means that the bottom of the keyboard is resting on my sternum. Really.

Downside: The flight is crowded, and there are WAY too many fat people on board. Not just chubby. Big ol’ truck drivin’ wide loads.

Downside: All the fatties seem to want to stand in the aisle, right next to me, my wife, and my sister’s almost-crying nine month old twins. And one of our big new friends is just a wee bit stinky.

Downside: There aren’t even any pretty girls on this flight to look at. I think someone secretly substituted all these uberchubbs for nice skinny pretty girls. And THAT is just not right.

Extra Bad Double Downside: My wife just saw what I wrote about looking at the pretty girls.

Upside: No terrorists tried to take over our plane.

New York City

Upside: I have an Uncle Jimmy, who knows NYC better than anyone I’ve ever known. He took my wife and I for an insider’s tour, and it rocked. We went to cathedrals, shops, stores, out of the way restaurants, a skyscraper bar, and endless other amusements. We ate Italian food in Little Italy, smoked cigars, and had real New York cheesecake. By the time we were done, we were exhausted. What a great tour, by a great guy.

Downside: We saw ground zero; it is truly hallowed ground. It really brings the magnitude of the 9/11 attacks into focus, and was a very sobering time. We are at war, my friends, and this is the kind of thing that profoundly reminds you of exactly why. I know that Mullah Omar and the old goat sucker himself, Osama, are still running from cave to cave in north western Pakistan, but they will not go unpunished forever. The fact that those two have a really, really limited life expectancy makes me a very happy Yankee.

Upside: We also saw the Broadway musical Rent. Although new, confusing characters were introduced at random points in the story, this was offset by the fact that the story was nearly incomprehensible anyway. However, the music was catchy and the story was upbeat. I think.

Downside: I’m still on the plane, and my big stinky friend is still standing just a wee bit too close.

Okay, okay, I’m done. We are landing, and my battery is going flat anyway. . If, in fact, you are reading this, it means that my flight actually landed and didn’t crash, at least not too hard. I’ll have more of this drivel for you guys in a week or two. Chow. Ciao. Chao. Whatever.







Date: 13 September
Venue: London, UK
Reporter: Luke 'DK' Miller

The Event
Advertisement

Waking up at 5:30 AM sucks hard. Bleary eyed, I somehow managed to make the right train connections and wind up in the right place, a medieval house just outside of London. (If you are interested, this is the place.

There were several of “Blizzard” in attendance, all helpful, and the hospitality was great (loads of food), however the main man had to be Chris Sigaty. As a Producer of World of Warcraft, he was the guy that answered nearly all of my questions.

We stayed at Walpole House for interviews, and then moved on to a hotel somewhere else for a demo and test play. There were about 10 other people present, from various websites and one or two from magazines; quite a variation. Some unlucky guys didn’t manage to get any questions answered at all (time constraints on the day), so I hope you are happy with what I managed to find out.

My focus was on obtaining server information, followed by dates and then gameplay issues. I had never been to an event like this before, but it was both great fun and very hard work trying to be on the ball constantly to get questions answered and pick out new info!
	
The interviews happened
in this house. 	The entrance to the|
house

The Facts

Here it is ladies and gents, the “meat” of the report. Listed below are all of the facts and snippets I managed to glean throughout the day, achieved by heckling the Blizzard guys relentlessly. A lot of this material wasn’t covered in the presentations, which were (dare I say it) quite basic, so most of this content is direct answers to questions I asked.

I recorded information in a notebook and using a Dictaphone, now sorted into three broad categories; Server Information, Dates, and Gameplay Information. The sound files I said I would try to get (of my one to one interview) are not included in this report, as Blizzard requested to check the sound files prior to them being uploaded, which would have slowed down this report, so I’ve omitted them, but included all of the information I learned during.

This report is mostly aimed at seasoned followers of the game, so I will let the facts I’ve found out speak for themselves; for newer visitors wanting to gain insight into the World of Warcraft, it may be advisable to go check out some other parts of WorldofWar.net, and then refer to this article to fill in the gaps.

Server Information

Servers will be split into the regions of US West, US East, Europe, and Asia (Korea), with the possibility of Chinese servers down the line. Each region will support 4 times the present capacity of the stress test, which I think was 12 servers in itself. They plan to have the hardware on hand to scale up or down the servers needed at will.

They aim for each server to cater to 3000 players at any one time.

All European countries will be able to play at launch.

There was 10 times the European interest in WoW that they were expecting, and they are taking the market very seriously. Apparently in 2008 the number of MMO gamers in Europe will equal the US market – and I think they want a piece of the action!

Initially servers will be forced. This means that people in the US will have to choose between East and West. Europeans wont be able to play on the US servers and vice versa. The Asian servers will obviously also be cut off from others.

The servers are being forced as the Producer stressed the need for a low latency, but I was told that there will be an option shortly after launch for people to change to any server (against Blizzards recommendation), as they know there are people desperate to play on specific servers regardless.

Blizzard are keen for the customer support level to parallel that of the USA; by forcing servers initially they believe they can improve this support, for example as GM’s will be on in your prime time for your country.

The eventual choice of which server you play on will be down to changing your payment method – not importing a box from another country. Essentially I got the impression it would mean somehow switching payment method to Euros / dollars depending what server you wish to switch to.

Dates

The Blizzard tour is doing a country a day!

The release date for the US is not confirmed, however the Producer mentioned the Euro launch would be out likely before Christmas, and that the US release would be a couple of months before that…

The European beta is coming soon, likely within two weeks. In fact, the Producer said, they are counting down in days not weeks!

There will not be a worldwide release. US and Asia will be released first, with Euro a couple of months after (this winter for Euro, it was hinted). 

Gameplay Information

Professions can be unlearnt.

I couldn’t find out anything specific about how production was going, although I found out Chris Sigaty (the Producer I was talking to) was fairly recently transferred from working on the Warcraft 3 and TFT games, over to WoW, and I got the impression it was “all hands on deck” over there.

I found out that Blizzard guys like to put on cheat modes during demos, such as turbo, insta-level up, and teleport. And invisibility. =P

There will be various payment methods, including charge cards, papal, credit cards and more.

Heroes will not be in at launch, however some aspects of heroes will, such as talents (vague I know).

At launch the level cap will be 60, however this will likely be raised as more content is added in.

I asked about high level content; specifically, what will keep players playing. Chris admitted there was a gentler curve in WoW than some of the other MMO’s (you level faster), and that a lot of the top-level activity would be PvP based. 

There will be rankings and prestige (for PvP), points systems (for factions), titles such as “Defender of the Realm”, and even extra content for PvP’ers of a sufficiently high standing, such as specific PvP instances, with special NPC vendors selling elite items that only the PvP “elite” will be able to access. There will also be item rewards for certain PvP feats.

Balance therefore is also crucial to the game. They are trying to balance all aspects, however Chris admitted that in one or two cases, certain classes would likely always have the edge on others.

There will be special guild content such as raids.

Housing is something to be considered after launch; there may be some small part implemented at launch, but don’t hold your breath.

Talents are mostly class based, and they are apparently where the individualism is going to come in. They will also try to tie in the “hero” feature to existing Warcraft 3 hero types (e.g Demon hunter). 

As far as “battlenet-brats” go, I was assured that griefers would be stomped on, however feature exploiters probably wouldn’t, but the feature they were exploiting would be analysed. I raised the issue of bush-yoinking, and he suggested for example, a fix such as clicking on the bush within a certain range to “tag” it.

The talent tree is very reminiscent of the Diablo II skill tree. We wont be seeing the ability to alter strength, dexterity etc at will as there were fears that this functionality would lead to cookie-cutter builds, and that people weren’t seeing any difference in pushing things up by one or two points.

The dark portal opening quest will be in! This will involve a series of raids that will probably need the cooperation of several guilds to pull off. Once open, the dark portal will be explorable by everyone.

Unlike professions, talents will be hard to unlearn and you will likely have to do a quest to do it. You will also likely be only able to do it once, and penalized also. Initially they didn’t want players to have the ability to “mess up” their characters, but at this stage (when it comes to talents), the kid gloves come off and you have to live with your choices. Presumably this is also to prevent cookie-cuttering and to produce some variation among characters.

You cannot maintain Alliance and Horde characters on the same server. Therefore most people will maintain a presence on two servers (one for Horde and one for Alliance). Amongst other things, the reason for this is to stop people jumping over to the “winning side” all the time!

There are story related quests, such as the titan mine in the badlands, which we were briefly shown.

There is a focus towards not throwing casual gamers in at the deep end; they will be adding a “help text” feature for really new players.

Demo play was on the European server, so they do have them up right now! I’ve played on it! =P

Next patch: Druid and shaman talents, level cap being raised to 60, big download, balance changes, warlock reevaluated.

They will be getting back to me on the subject of a few questions I couldn’t get answered (due to time constraints).

Afterthoughts

A cool experience, however it lacked “magic”. This wasn’t all that bad a thing, as I was able to get straight in with the nitty gritty questions. Of particular interest I think will be the information I obtained on the server situation, which I know a lot of people have been waiting for.

I hope this report has proved insightful, and that I provided some cool news; and if you are reading this Blizzard, thanks for your hospitality. ^_^

Feel free to ask me any questions here.








Post Traumatic Stress Test Disorder
Date : 15 September 2004

Advertisement
Ok, folks, this is being written as Blizzard’s WoW Stress Test Beta is, within days, drawing to a close. Since the stress test lasted only a week, I’m not going to be able to give you guys an insightful, deep, well thought out analysis of the game at this point. (I’m not sure I’m even capable of giving a "insightful, deep, well thought out analysis" of anything at all, but that’s not my point). All I can really give you is my impressions. To make matters even more chaotic, I’ll write them down in whatever order they pop into my head. Isn’t stream of consciousness just grand?

Lag

Surprisingly, during normal play there is virtually no lag at all. At one point, Bliz had orchestrated things so that there was something like 3900 people on my server. Let me put this in perspective: I grew up in a town with a population of less than 3900 people. To make matters even more crowded, I logged into a zone filled with newbies. I’d expected things to be so laggy I couldn’t move; fortunately, that wasn’t so. The newb zone was overcrowded, but it was very playable. Thus, when I was immediately killed by a baby dire bunny, I was unable to convince anyone that it was a lag death. Anyway, during the rest of my time playing, on both crowded and uncrowded servers, in crowded and uncrowded zones, lag was rarely an issue at all.

Hunters

I had been under the impression that hunters were like rangers in other games, but that really isn’t the case in WoW. This is not a tank class. I suppose you could call them light tanks, but even that’s kind of a stretch, and it doesn’t really capture what a hunter is all about. They aren’t like anything I’ve seen in other MOGs; they are genuinely unique.

They are strong in shooting skills, and they have some melee ability, but their primary strength is the pet. Hunters looooove their pets, too. I saw spider pets, bear pets, cat pets, and virtually every other kind of animal pet you can think of. The whole idea of naming pets provided a pretty much endless form of amusement. A gigantic spider named "Fluffy" is funny, as is "Dave the Tiger." In short, hunters are a very versatile class, but they are different from any of the stereotypical RPG classes you’ve seen in the past.

Cloaks

I can only guess that Blizzard’s hiring of those Czech programmers last year has had a few consequences. The first of which is the obvious mistranslation of the word "cloak" for the word "shawl." There are no "cloaks" or "capes" in World of Warcraft. There are, however, plenty of shawls, wraps, and stoles to go around. Much to my surprise, the chain cloak I looted early in the game appeared on my brave orc warrior as a triangular piece of cloth hanging from his shoulders, and pointing downward toward his waist. I’d hoped it was just a single badly modeled piece of clothing, but I found that all the cloaks looked about the same. In fact, at one point I realized that his "cloak" looked like he’d strapped on a halter top backwards. Uh, very macho.

Elf vs. Orc

I did a little comparison, for those who might be interested. I made an orc warrior, and leveled him up to 6, and made an night elf warrior, and leveled him up to 6 as well. I wanted, for curiosity's sake, to compare a strong/tough race with a quicker/lighter one. I'd have leveled them up more, but heck, I'm only allowed to play for a week. Anyway, at the end, I compared their stats.

The bottom line: At lvl 6, the orc hits a bit harder (1 to 2 pts per swing), and has a few more hit points (30). The elf has slightly better defense overall (16 pts more natural armor, and a higher [1.4%] dodge percentage), and crits a tiny bit more (1%). In truth, even at level 6, the differences were pretty small.

The breakdown:

Lvl 6 orc

180 HP

Str 32
Agi 19
Sta 30
Int 22
Spi 23

Atk 30
Pow 79
Dam 11-12 (fists)
Def 30
Armor 38 (naked)

Crit 4.67%
Ddge 4.45%
Blk 5%


Lvl 6 night elf

150 HP

Str 25
Agi 27
Sta 27
Int 22
Spi 22

Atk 30
Pow 48
Dam 9-10 (fists)
Def 30
Armor 54 (naked)

Crit 5.5%
Ddge 5.91%
Blk 5%

In case anyone was wondering, race seems to matter relatively little when making a warrior, even in the early game. Although warriors of different races won’t be exactly alike, they will be comparable. I imagine the same holds true for all the other classes as well. So pick whatever race you want to play, and have fun with it.

The Toughest Elves You’ve Ever Met

Speaking of WoW’s night elves, male NEs are nothing like the high fantasy RPG elves you’ve seen in other game. I’m sure you’ve seen the screenshots by now. The most obvious difference is that night elves are huge. If the average RPG human stands in the 5’8" to 6’ tall range, the night elves must be about 6’4" or better. In addition, they aren’t the slender, wimpy elves of other games. These guys are lean, very muscular, and pretty scary looking.

When it comes to stats, the night elves are still relatively weak, but pretty agile. I’m not sure why that is, exactly, since these guys are such monsters. Their thick, muscular looks certainly do not match their stats.

The downside to the elves is their haircuts. That’s right, their hair is a big negative. Apparently there are no NE barbers, but there is plenty of Pantene Pro Conditioner to go around. Everyone single one of these dudes has long hair. Just imagine if David Bowie had injected steroids instead of heroin for all those years, and you get the idea.

Don’t get me wrong, you do get to choose between long, longer, and extremely long hair, but there are no options for anything else. If you think you are going to take your elf and give him a masculine haircut, think again. You might want to get real used to the idea of him having a ponytail, braids, or hair longer (and more beautiful) than your sister’s. By the time you are done picking your avatar’s hair color (blue, green, purple, orange, etc) even you, the person who designed him, are going to have some serious questions about his sexual preference.

Character Creation

I’d argue that this feature isn’t quite finished yet. There are approximately 8 choices each for face, hair, skin color, facial hair, and hair color. This isn’t really enough. When I made my night elf and logged into the newbie zone, there were a lot of other elves that looked a lot like me. And when I got into a group of four (two men and two women) killing spiders at a nearby cave, we all suddenly realized that we all looked almost exactly the same. Everyone in our group (including me) had picked the same pale blue skin color, and everyone (including me) had picked the same long, pretty, light blue hair. From a distance, it looked like either a drag queen convention, or girls’ night out. Anyway, there just isn’t enough diversity in terms of character creation, but Bliz has said that they’re going to add to this before release. Let’s hope so.

The Randomize Feature

One of the more interesting things about the character creation process is an innovative "Randomize" button near the bottom of the screen. It does exactly what it says -- it randomizes your hair, skin, face, etc. I’d strongly recommend spending some quality time with the Randomize button. Just like spending quality time with your significant other, it generates some really great and unexpected results. It also gives you some ideas as to how to design the look of your character. Anyway, this is one surprisingly nice feature that I suggest you use when the game goes retail.

The Death Penalty

Remember all the things that bugged you about the last MMORPG you played? Well, Bliz has demonstrated a remarkable ability to fix almost every single one of those things. The death penalty is no exception.

When your character dies, he simply appears as a ghost in a nearby graveyard. At that point, you can choose to accept a small xp penalty and resurrect right there, or you can run back and get your corpse. The xp loss is the equivalent of two or three kills, so it’s actually quite minor. If you choose to run back to your body, you resurrect at that location, and suffer no xp loss at all.

Interestingly, the death penalty still stings, but it doesn’t just kick your ass the way, say, it does in old EQ. It is a pain to die, then have to run back to your body, or return to your group, or whatever. But it’s not such a discouragement as to make you bang on your desk, scream at your monitor, and then hope your kids didn’t hear what you just said. In short, Blizzard is actually helping you raise your children in a better, profanity free environment. Nice going, Bliz!

Okay, friends, that’s all I have for this week. In a few days, after the test is over, I’ll have some more to say. Until then, I bid you all a fond adieu!

Article by The Pig








Post Traumatic Stress Test Disorder - Part 2
Date : 20 September 2004

Advertisement

I looked in the mirror this morning. I look sad, drawn, and unheroic. What happened to my brave, muscular, virtual existence? Who is the chubby, weak, pale man staring back at me?

The World of Warcraft stress test has come to a close. It’s done. It’s over. L

I feel so empty now (sniff).

Is this all there is to real life? The flat, pale existence that we call the real world?

Where are the quests? Where are the drops? Where is my purpose?

Most importantly of all, where are all the hot elven chicks!?!?

Your First MMORPG

Remember the first online RPG you ever played? There was a certain feeling to it -- immersive, compelling, addicting -- that made you love it. It had a hold on you, you were fascinated by it, and drawn into it. And when you were away from it, you wanted to get back to it as soon as you could. It was like crack, except it didn’t make you steal, and it didn’t rot your teeth out. Or get you thrown in jail. Oh, never mind.

If you’re like me, you’ve tried to recapture that experience, and there’s been a lot of disappointment. Other games didn’t satisfy. In fact, many of these second generation games were critically, fatally flawed.

Well, let me reassure you, you can have that feeling once again. It’s called WoW.

WoW really is a great game. It doesn’t do anything that’s revolutionary. In fact, the guys at Blizzard have made a point of building the game around basic, well established RPG principles. These same principles have been around a long time, from the early, successful MMORPGs, in MUDs, and in single player RPGs. These same ideas are present in the old table top RPGs (remember D&D, anyone?) of the 70s and 80s.

Other recent online RPGs have sought to deviate from this formula; they are all disappointments. AC2 had only three races to choose from, and relatively little content. Oddly, you could reach the level cap in AC2 in, oh, about five minutes. SWG was more like "The Sims in Space" than anything else. It made a game out of tradeskills instead of adventuring. It appeared that SWG was designed by guys who thought Watto the Junk Dealer was a lot more interesting than, say, Han Solo or Boba Fett. (Just freakin’ brilliant.) SWG has very, very little actual content. Shadowbane also tried to make a game with little content, and focused all of it’s energy on PvP. (In case you were wondering, that also turned out to be a bad idea.) Other games have focused on players changing the world, on game graphics, and on other off-topic ideas. There are numerous other examples of game designers trying to reinvent the wheel. In every case, these reinventions have miserably failed.

WoW doesn’t do this. Blizzard clearly understands and expands upon those aforementioned well-established RPG principles. WoW has lots and lots of interesting content, and the game is focused squarely on adventuring. WoW also has interesting, appropriate PvP, interesting trade skills, and they are adding lots and lots of high end content. They have hero classes for the most advanced players. In fact, WoW gets so many things right it’s actually quite hard to describe it all.

Way to go, Bliz.

Questing vs. Hunting

There are more than a few gripes about questing. The gripes generally focus on the fact that players get a lot more experience completing quests than by hunting. This generally means that players head out to location X, kill Y numbers of monsters (just enough to complete the given quest), and then return to the quest giver for the promised reward. The player is then on to complete the next quest. Other consequences of these huge quest rewards is that groups are short-lived (people group only long enough to complete quests), and dungeons are rarely explored or cleaned out (unless people need to do so to complete a quest). In following quests, folks don’t really explore, either. They just follow the quests around, gaining experience all to quickly and missing out on all the hunting and exploring. To hear folks complain about this, it’s obvious that quests are a bad, bad thing!

Well, let me tell you, it’s not entirely true. The experience given for quest completion is larger than anything I’ve seen in other online games. And the rewards -- weapons, armor, and other fantasy doodads -- are generally worth getting. And all of this has had an impact on grouping and dungeon clearing.

Looking at the evidence, however, might make folks think a bit differently about grouping and dungeon clearing. In one example, I received 1100 xp and a decent item for completing a quest outside Darnassus. To complete this quest, I had to kill 8 mobs at about 180xp each. The entire quest took me about a half hour to complete. The total xp this yielded for me was 1100, plus the 1440 for the 8 kills, for a total of 2540 xp. Not bad.

If, however, I had hunted for mobs for that entire half hour, the xp I received would have been far greater. On average, I can very easily kill more than one mob per minute. Utilizing the most conservative possible estimate, considering lots of extra downtime for rough fights, potentially camped spawns, etc., I figure I could still easily kill 25 mobs during this time. At 180 xp each, that’s a total of 4500 xp. In addition, I would have looted all 25 of those corpses, yielding a bunch of junk to sell, and possibly one or two useful items.

I let you decide this one for yourselves. I’m not saying that questing is a waste of time. In fact, I complete almost all the quests I can find. However, I am saying that there is still a big place for hunting, exploring, raiding, and xp grinding in this game. And, as Blizzard adjusts quest rewards, gives group xp bonuses, and adjusts loot drops on mobs, the tendency of people to mindlessly tramp from quest to quest will be diminished somewhat.


The Toughest Humans You’ve Ever Met

Unlike other MMORPGs, Wow features some very tough looking humans. Apparently, every human male in the World of Warcraft is a serious weightlifter. Their bodies aren’t the lean, muscular bodies that the NE’s possess. The human bodies are much stockier, more like power lifters. On top of this, if you want to give your dude a nice, butch haircut, you can. That’s right, there are a couple of masculine looks to be had, including short hair, a crew cut, and completely bald. [The muscularity and overall machoness offsets the fact that a mild rickets epidemic swept through human land about 20 years ago. It’s the only way to explain the bowleggedness of all the men.]

The downside to the humans is the really weak faces. Almost every face looks worried or scared. This is going to need some work by Blizzard. When I made my paladin, I had to cover up his frightened, sniveling features with a butch, masculine goatee. I can’t have my paladin running around, fighting evil, and looking like he’s afraid of every kobold he sees. It just wouldn’t be right, I tell you!

Paladins

As of this writing, paladins have a rap on the various message boards out there as being pretty weak. To be honest, I’m didn’t really see that, although I only played my pali to less than level 10. I’d argue that they are just about the equivalent of warriors, in that they can wield most of the same weapons and get the same armor. They lack the same skills as the warriors do, but of course get some nice spells in return.

Interestingly, paladins are not limited to maces/blunt weapons as has been rumored. For a mere 30 training points (that’s very cheap, btw), they can pick up swords, axes, and a couple of two-handed weapons. This gives the paladins some variety, and they won’t be stuck chasing down every scepter or club that drops in the game.

One thing the paladins do lack is any kind of ranged ability. This is going to be their biggest disadvantage. When it comes to pulling (part of their job as a tank) and PvP (where ranged ability is critical), I’d wager this is going to be the biggest gripe for paladin players.

Two Potential Problems

There are really only two problems I see in WoW as it stands now. The first is that the Horde will have few female players. Why? It’s simple. The female avatars are pretty beastly. In fact, in my time in the WoW universe, I say many female players and female avatars in the Alliance. I cannot remember seeing any female Horde players. None.

Most women MOG players choose either cute, gnome-like avatars, or pretty human/elven avatars. And that is pretty much what the problem boils down to -- there are no cute or pretty female Horde characters.

Think about it: rare is the female player who plays a bearded dwarven woman, or a female ogre, or even a female member a game’s lizard race. In my experience, even if a woman player chooses to play a traditionally evil race, it will almost inevitably be a drow.

I tried to get my wife -- a typical female RPGer -- to pick a Horde female to play, but there was something too gross for her no matter which race she experimented with. The trolls have huge splay hands, and feet like camels. The orc females are green, with fangs, and generally quite ugly. The undead have some cute, goth faces -- but also exposed bones and rotting flesh. And no woman on earth is going to role play a freakin’ cow, okay? Every single one of the female Horde avatars was just too icky for her. The moment we looked at the good guys, however, she picked three female avatars -- the sexy (and they are hot) NEs, the pretty humans, and the cute gnomes.

Bottom line: 90% of the women who play WoW will be playing Alliance toons. Some women will find something likeable about trolls, orcs, or the gothic undead, but they will be few and far between. And I challenge anyone to find a woman who voluntarily created and played a cow.

The second potential problem is lack of a monstrous race in the Alliance. If you are the kind of player (like me) who simply must play a big, strong race, you’ll probably end up playing a Horde character. Why? The Horde has the impressively powerful orcs, the huge and muscular tauren, the ugly and monstrous trolls, and the spooky, creepy undead. The humans and NEs are tougher than in other games, but they simply cannot compare the the Horde guys. ‘Nuff said.

I think that Bliz could rather easily address both of these problems. If they put in a few character design options that made the undead chicks a bit less creepy, they’d be a lot more popular. Women love vampires, the goth movement is huge, and punk chicks who shop at Hot Topic are everywhere. If they allowed the undead to be a bit less skeletal (no matter how you dress her, her spine, hips, shoulders, knees, and elbows remain exposed bone), and added a few additional hairstyles, colors, and pretty faces, they’d give women the ability to relate to them, and not be creeped out by them. This is a role-playing game, after all.

A similar fix is available to Blizzard to address the other issue as well. Allowing Alliance players to pick some features akin to the barbarian in Diablo II would go a long way to solving the "lack of a monstrous race" problem. Savage, tattooed, barbaric heads should be available to the humans. I’d even argue that similar heads/features (especially haircuts) should be available to the night elves. This gives monster-playing guys (like me) the ability to RP an Alliance character. In addition, both solutions remain true to the WoW universe.

Transportation

Various MMORPGs have tried a wide variety of transportation systems, most of which have been pretty bad. Some games had strangely spaced teleporters. Others had, well, nothing. DAoC has a system of rentable horsies. EQ had a system which relied upon ghost ships that moved as slowly as an elderly, three-legged tortoise, or the, ahem, "goodwill" of your fellow players. Now don’t get me wrong, I appreciated being teleported by druids (and rezzed by clerics), but it always cost some plat to get the help of these "holy men." Of course, televangelists do the same thing today, but I digress…

Well, among the many things that Bliz fixed is this transportation problem. Running is actually pretty fast, faster than other games I‘ve played. Rideable mounts (tigers, rams, wolves, horses, etc) are available at level 40 (the approximate mid point of the game), and some classes have teleport or speed abilities. Riding a zeppelin or a hippogriff takes just a few minutes; apparently, mass transit in the medieval steam punk setting of WoW is actually much faster than taking a train or a bus. And you don’t have to put up with the stinky weirdo sitting next to you, either.

Playability

By the standards of any other company out there, this game is ready for release now. The only reason it hasn’t been released yet is because Blizzard is making it. Bliz is all about releasing games when they are perfect; that is obviously what they are shooting for with WoW. By the looks of things, they are succeeding.

Compare it to The Saga of Ryzom, which is in open beta now, and scheduled for release in mid-September. The game looks and plays like something from 1992.

By the time November 15th rolls around, WoW is going to be more than done. It’s going to have a smooth launch, it’s going to be playable from the first moment, and it’s going to sell like hotcakes. How do I know? Because 100,000 people just played it for a week; the problems they encountered are extremely minor, the gripes are few, and the raves are everywhere.

It’s nice to see the good guys succeed. Go get ‘em, Bliz.











