
Playing the game that's right for you.
by DarknessCrusader
for WorldofWar.net

Now, I'm not exactly sure how many characters you're going to be able to play upon release. I'm guessing four, but it might be more or less. I'm mainly just hoping Blizzard isn't going to do like some other MMORPGs and only let you play one, and then charge more for each additional char. But whatever the number, I'm betting it won't be ten like we get to play in the BETA. Actually, I have 32 characters. I have the 10 I played on the original BETA server. I have the 10 I am now playing on the PvP server. I also have 2 more I am not playing on the BETA2 server. I only made those characters cause the PvP server was down for a little while and I was wasting time. Also note, a couple of these chars are my wife's (2 hers and 2 we share sort of) (ok... just 2 are hers). But anyhow, I've had the pleasure of trying out every race and every class and every trade (now profession) and every everything at least a little bit. I'm not going to tell you I'm an expert at any of it, and in fact most of it I feel like a real newb when it comes to. But I'm hoping after reading this, you might have a better understanding of the different choices you'll have when making your characters and choose correctly to make the game you really want to play. Also note, I'm leaving Faction out of this journal because even though Horde rules and Alliance sucks, it might be different on whichever server you're playing on... yeah right! :P
Oh... and I even put in a Diablo 2 reference since I know many of you play that game and my character experiences so you can get an idear of how you compare with me.

The classes: Even though your class depends on which race you choose to play, I know a good majority of you will choose your class first and then just see which race supports it. And since racial traits aren't in yet, races are kinda irrelevant right now anyways. So we're just going to be looking at the different classes for now.

Druid: The truest of all the hybrid classes, this character is a healer-caster who can turn into a bear and pretend he's a warrior, turn into a cat and pretend he's a rogue, or turn into a travel form for quicker movement. He might not be as good as any of them in thier own fields, but his diversity is still awe-inspiring. His main weakness though is his inability to easily change forms. There's no real smooth way to go from cat form to bear form or caster form. It's best to plan ahead and decide what you need the most and stick with it. Because of thier diversity though, druids can generally solo well. But, because of thier inability to change swiftly and them being weaker than thier counter-parts, druids aren't generally sought after in parties. Usually if partied, they take the role of healer, but even then they are considered sub-par because they lack the ability to resurrect others. Definitely a 'fun' class to play at any rate!
D2 reference: The beloved druid with his shape-shifting abilities and weak elemental nukes. Sorry, no summonings though.
The DC druid: As much as I love the druid, I do not play him. I don't care for the animal forms at all, prefering the caster druid. But even then, all I've got is a weak Priest. I hoped for so much with the druid, but felt let down in the end. He does look extremely kewl though in his beastie modes!

Hunter: Range is this guys specialty. With gun or bow in hand, this fellow can drop an enemy before they ever reach him. And if they do by chance get to him, he still has some melee skill to defend himself with. But this guy's real power comes with his range for sure! Oh, and did I mention he also gets a pet to fight for him. At level 10 you can start running around taming all those beasts that meet your fancy and then send them off to do the dirty work for you while you stay in the background, working your ranged weapon like only you can. The hunter is an extremely good soloer relying on his pet and ranged skills to work his way out of any situation. The hunter is also nice in parties to lure enemies away from thier friends with his ranged weapon. Just be careful not to get so much aggro on you that the tank in the group or your pet can't get it the enemy off of you. Your pet will be your main weakness. Since your pet oftentimes has a mind of it's own, you're never gauranteed that it will behave like you want. Unwanted enemeies getting aggrod can happen quite easliy with a pet in tow. Also, if you don't keep your pet happy by feeding it often, it will either run away or might even attack you.
D2 reference: Think of the amazon with the druid's bear in tow and you have the hunter.
The DC druid: I love my hunter! This was the class I wanted to play the most and even though I had to wait to try him out, I'm happy with the results. There's nothing like sending my wolf, MaDnEsS, off on an enemy and then sitting back and delivering arrow after arrow onto it. I'm extremely satisfied with the ranged attacks. I like the melee options too. Can't wait for the pet options to open up too... that's the only thing lacking as of right now. Definitely one of my favorites if not my favorite!

Mage: These chars know where to deliver the damage. Massive spell damage is what they're known for and they do thier job well. Wether it's an enormous fireball or an area of effect Frost Nova, these guys can make short work of most any opponents. Polymorph the enemy you want to save for later and nuke his buddy in the meantime. A mage's only weakness is a total lack of armor and hit points. Keep your enemies at bay and toast them before they get to you and you'll do fine. Just remember, if you're in a party, your spells will do more damage than anyone else can dish out. So you need to learn how to keep aggro away from you and on the party-member who deserves it. Cast weaker spells if need be, just don't attract more attention than you can handle.
D2 reference: Hands down he sorceress.
The DC mage: I like the mage. I love making my own water and giving out food and water to those in need. I like being able to nuke anything that gets in my way. But what I love most about the mage is the range of power they have. Nothing can deliver so much damage from so far away. Not really my play-style, but I definitely can see the appeal it has for others.

Paladin: These tanks can take alot of damage and then heal when the fighting's done. Not really damage dealers, they can still dish it out when needed. But the main power behind the paladin is thier auras. Just turn on an aura and everyone will want to remain at your side to gain it's benefit. The weakness of the paladin is the fact that it has no ranged attack. This is nothing a little engineering and some dynamite and grenades can't fix, but that's only if you take Engineering as your profession. But anyhow, if an enemy can keep you at bay and work you down with thier ranged attacks, you're toast. Just make sure that doesn't happen!
D2 reference: Ummm... I don't know... maybe the paladin you think? Hammerdins not allowed!
The DC paladin: This was the first class I played... and the first class to disappoint me. For being a class built around awesome defense and healing, I could not stay alive long enough to defeat the simplist of enemies. I have since started up another paladin just recently to see how much they've changed and have to admit I'm having a much better time with this new one. The only problem I came across was that I had to play Alliance and all the Alliance players I came across were either very rude or were just plain too into themselves to care about anyone else and what they needed.

Priest: The healers of WoW. When it comes to saving lives, these guys are the masters. They also can dish out decent damage with thier shadow spells and have buffs and shields to help out all in need. The most desired member in any party, the only real weakness of the priest is his lack of defense and hit points. But, even though they can only handle a few hits, most any tank would be more than happy to step in front of you and take those blows in exchange for your heals. Just make sure you don't waste those heals and save your mana for when you really need it!
D2 reference: Ummm... think of the sorceress if she threw heals instead of nukes... or just imagine a healer from a game that actually has one.
The DC Priest: Even though playing a healer can be kinda boring, I like the Priest and will more than likely play one upon release. This is the wife's favorite class at any rate!

Rogue: You like hiding in shadows and striking out from behind your opponent? How about lurching around in the background, stealing what you can and picking any lock that gets in your way? Or how about dishing out all types of devastation on any unsuspecting fool? Then maybe the rogue is right for you. With thier lock-picking skills and finishing moves, rogues can compilment any party they're in, but also work well alone. Sneaking up on enemies and quickly stealing the life from them before they even know what hit them. Who could ask for anything more? Stack up combo points on an enemy to deliver those really nasty finishers. Weakness... well, the main weakness I find is players playing the rogue too roguish. I've seen many rogue deaths because the rogue went out of thier way to do something rogue-like... like trying to lock-pick a boss who ends up catching them and destroying the whole unprepared party because of it. I have more rogues on my 'Do Not Party With' list than all other classes put together!
D2 reference: The assassin with all her combo moves. No Cloak of Shadows though... thank God!
The DC rogue: I always use my finishers at the wrong time. Either too late as to not get thier full benefit or too early so as to not get enough benefit from them... or at least not as much as I could have.I think I just said the same thing three times in three different ways, but oh well... I know what I mean! To be honest, the rogue was the one class I had no intention to play and after playing it, I still feel the same. It's just not me at all. Stealthing through enemies is kinda kewl, but I'm not into the whole combo system and I'm not really into the whole rogue thing either.

Shaman: A hybrid class that is a decent meleer, a darn good healer, and a somewhat caster too. The shaman is a nice solo class for he can nuke and still handle the melee when it comes to that. But a shaman really shines in a party. Totems that add buffs or defenses can be a real life saver. And speaking of life-saving, the shaman not only makes an exellent healer, but if someone does die, the shaman can ressurect them back to life. The shaman's main weakness though is his lack of a mana pool. And when the mana runs out, that turns the shaman into a weak warrior. Of course, you can always beef up your melee attributes and make the highly renowned melee-shaman (I'm surprised how often I hear that term now since my Shaman journal... I didn't think people actually read this stuff!). But even then, you're hurting your party skills. Best to keep your mana balanced and learn to only use what is needed. No going overboard on your totems and spells. Also you get the extremely useful travel form!
D2 reference: Think of the shaman as a paladin who drops his auras in place instead of them emiting from him. And he gets up to four of them. Charge not included.
The DC shaman: I am best known for my two shamans. I had gotten up to level 32 on the BETA server with one (mMaDnEsSs) and now I'm up to level 52 on the PvP server with another (MaDnEsS). I play as more of a caster shaman than a melee shaman, so I even started another shaman to play strictly as a melee-shaman. I love having the ability to help out in many different ways and using the shaman's support abilities to see any party I'm in through even the toughest of situations. I will play a shaman upon release.

Warlock: Like summoning demons to do your dirty work for you? Of course you do you twisted fool! But anyhow, the warlock is the king of the curse. First he spats out obsenities at you and then he he sends his summoned pet after you. Got to love him! By far one of the funnest classes to play, the warlock can dish out some nukes, put weaknesses on thier enemies, and summon demons to blast, punch, or whip thier enemies into oblivian. He can summon an imp that gives extra hit-points to the party and shoots fireballs. Or a voidwalker who acts like a warrior and draws enemy aggro onto himself. Or a succubus who can stealth around and deliver the damage where it is needed. She also nice for 'sleeping' and enemy you're not ready to fight yet, though it does take her out of the fight also. The only real weakness of the walock is his inability to deliver damage himself... at least not without causing himself great pain also. A warlock quickly gets shoved into the background in any party, but is still desired for his ability to make healthstones (like healing potions) and soulstones (an instant ressurection). But as a soloer, a warlock is only as powerful as his ability to control his pet. This is where alot of warlocks fail.
D2 reference: The necromancer without so powerful of bone spells and no corpse explosion! Substitute the skeletons and golem for a demon and wha-la, there you go!
The DC warlock: I like my warlock, but must admit I'm not very good with him. I have no control over my pet and generally get myself into situations I can't get out of. Still very fun to play and even though it's not one of my first choices, I wouldn't mind playing a warlock just for fun upon release.

Warrior: The tank and often-time leader of a group. The warrior either has awesome defense skills and can take anything dished upon them, or they have awesome attack power and can tear through enemies like a warm knife through butter. But wether you go offensive or defensive, one thing remains the same. You are in way too much of a hurry. A warrior is only as good as his Rage. And since not being in combat makes your Rage go down, a warrior wants to constantly be fighting. This is okay while soloing and is even extremely nice since there's almost no down time at all. But in a party this sucks big time for the rest of the crew. Most other classes are only as powerful as thier mana, and if you don't give them time to recharge, they become completely worthless. I've seen more than my fair share of Warriors go down because they charged on ahead into battle while the rest of the party was resting up. Just slow your role!
The two main warrior types are defensive and offensive. Defensive warriors tend to use one-handed weapons and a shield and generally work great in a party keeping all aggro on them. They don't require as much healing, but also generally don't deliver those killing blows. Thier main purpose is to take the puishment that the enemy dishes out while the other party members bring them down one by one. The offensive warrior on the othe hand usually uses a two-handed weapon or dual wields and can generally kill an enemy in a matter of seconds. They can't take as much damage, but generally they can kill the enemy before taking that many hits. Solo they dominate, but in parties or against multiple enemies, thier weakness starts to show.
D2 reference: Imagine the barbarian with the paladin's charge ability and you have the Warrior in all his glory.
The DC warrior: What can I say... I suck at being a warrior. I don't know if I just can't time things right or maybe I'm using the wrong abilities at the wrong time, or maybe I'm just not rash enough to be so rash... whatever the reason, I have yet to show any sign of being a warrior. My hat is off to all those who can master this monster.

My class choices for release:
1st: Hunter. This will be my solo char.
2nd: Shaman. This will be my party machine.
3rd: Priest. This will be my character I play with my friends.
4th: Mage or Warlock. This will be 'just for fun!'





WoW Stress Test Analysis (part 2)
by Skyghost 	October 1, 3:55 pm
1431 Views
Advertisement

After reaching level 20 I headed east from Silverpine Forest to Hillsbrad Foothills. This zone has both a horde and an alliance town. The mobs wander around at a much larger radius which means that leaving the road or beaten paths will guarantee a battle. The odd thing I noticed is that somehow the mobs would start walking in my general direction whenever I entered their radius range. I’m not sure if Blizzard has coded them this way of if it just pure coincidence but it did make solo hunting a lot harder in this zone then I anticipated. Whenever I engaged a mob I would get attacked by another wandering mob quite often which led to many ghostly runs in this zone. Overall the zone offers good variety of encounters including the occasional Alliance player attacks.


The leveling experience started to slow down after level 20. By the second last day of the stress test I reached level 25. I was also finishing off the last quests available in Hillsbrad Foothills at that level meaning that the zone could use more quests to make it more interesting. I spoke to a group of players who were playing together from the very start of the stress test and their priest managed to reach level 32. I did see level a 35 rogue and a 44 warrior on the horde side but they didn’t say much which was kind of suspicious. I fought against a level 40 paladin and a 38 warrior on the last day of the stress test which had me worried.


The first concern is exploits. I heard rumors that the players that reached level 35+ in the stress test were exploiting a rested state bug gave them double experience on all kills. The other observation is that majority of highest level players were solo melee classes. I hope that Blizzard looked at the highest levels /played time before giving out the stress test closed beta invites. I know a lot players would be angry if they found out that cheaters got invited. My second concern is the leveling speed. If indeed those players had honestly reached level 35+ in a week and a half then level 60 can be reached in less than a month. Like DAoC, WoW offers pvp for the end game experience which of course will get old eventually. I think Blizzard should reconsider character advancement speed to be more balanced. If players can reach high levels easily it might decrease the sense of accomplishment in the game. But then again there are people out there who are still playing Diablo2 today, addicted to the never ending thread mill.


When comparing to other mmorpgs, WoW’s level grind isn’t as noticeable thanks to the game’s focus on quests. Now I already heard complaints about where players don’t like the “kill X mobs to collect Y drops” or “kill Z amount of mobs”, etc generic quests which are so common. I find that to be a good thing for the simple reason that game play feels more rewarding when you are playing to complete quests so you can level rather than camping the same mobs for hours watching the experience bar. A refreshing change to what EQ and SWG have tried to sell to players as the norm for mmorpgs.


The Problems And Suggestions List

Please keep in mind that these problems were noted during the stress test. As I’m writing this, some may have been already fixed in the new patches.
The current game build is so stable that I’m pretty sure Sony or Mythic would have released WoW already (judging their past decisions). Thank god Blizzard is in charge because there is still many changes needed. Here are some problems and suggestions:

1) As already mentioned earlier, I came across a few broken quests that had very rare loot drops and quest that were unfinished. I would like to see quest items be auto looted just like in DAoC because there is fighting among players when waiting for quest specific mobs to spawn.

2) The current party member color (light blue) makes it hard to distinguish from other players (normal blue).

3) Not enough diversity in spell effects. A rank 3 fireball looks the same as rank 1 fireball. My mage only got to level 25 so I’m not 100 percent sure if this is true at later level. I’d prefer to see some improvement to the animation to show that it’s a higher level spell being cast.

4) Limited spell variety. I’m confident that Blizzard will throw in some more spells in the future but the game needs more fun spells aka shrink, enlarge, levitate, etc.

5) Talents need to be more balanced. When I was playing my mage I tried different talent templates and by far ice was the most useless. UPDATE: I reviewed the newest patch changes to Mage talents and Fire still looks the best overall.

6) The ability for players to put way points on the world map and mini map should be added.

7) The Druid class is too similar to the Shaman. I think this has been said too many times already by other players but I feel there is a need to repeat it since no major changes have been done.

8) Automatic eat/drink option. If a player eats some food and his health bar is still not full, he would then automatically eat the next available food in the inventory.

9) A 10 second passive mode for all newly spawned mobs. Currently mobs attack players only a few seconds after spawning.

10) UI character buffs should be moved to the left side under the character portraits. It would make it easier to know when buffs are expiring.

11) At the current state there are too few building designs. Majority of towns have the same generic building. I’ve been told that they are place holders till new buildings are put in but I doubt that.

12) More funny sounds would be nice. I would chuckle at the sounds peasants made when being attacked. Tons of fun to kill them.


Part 3 (PvP) coming soon

-SkyGhost





I was (happily) a participant in the World of Warcraft stress test, a game I've been waiting decades (give or take) for. Since my character(s) are now all dead and gone, never to be seen again, I decided it would be kind of a waste for nothing to come out of my experiences. 'Hmm', I thought, 'What can I do now that the stress test is over?' I was hungry, so I got some pasta. (I <3 pasta) And pasta makes me tired, so I went to sleep. After I woke up, I kinda hung out for a while. Then I did some work, then slept some more. Then, today came, and it came to me: 'I can go find a beta tester, beat him up and take his key! BRILLIANT!'. Upon realizing I didn't have the means to a) find the address of a beta tester in my area or b) beat anyone up that isn't a midget (Oops, I mean 'Little person', sorry) (and it would have to be a pretty feeble midget [I did it again, apologies]), I decided to write this journal. And you decided to read it. Or else.

Part A: NEWBIE-TASTIC!

Having downloaded the client about a week before I could actually play the game (and, on more than one occasion, opening the client just to listen to the music and stare at the login screen and grind my teeth), on a sunny Thursday afternoon, perfect weather to be outside, I could FINALLY make my account and login to play! Oh joy! After getting over the initial shock (i.e. 'OMG [yes, sometimes just the letters of a phrase come to mind... I find myself thinking OMG or WTF quite often. I'm a sad, sad homosapian] I can't believe I'm finally playing/Ican'tbelievehowgreatthisis/OMGOMGOMGOMGOMGOMG!!!1oneoneone/etc.) I created my character, an Undead Mage, and started playing away. I logged somewhat close to when the game first opened, so the undead newbie area was filled to the brim. Even so, I killed various skeletons and whatnot and completed quests (I especially liked the newbie quest that involved slaughtering those pesky humans that made camp near there and yoinking their bandanas) more efficiently than the rest of the people [hereafter known as drones], and quickly got beyond the pack. The pack of drones. Except for Dead. I was never ahead of him. He was a beast. A beast that invited me to his clan. And helped me out on several occasions. Go Dead.

Soon after completing everything there was to do, I got a quest sending me out into the real world. I sauntered down the road and through a large wooden barricade, leading to Tristfal Glades, where, right at the entrance, there was a guard with (suspenseful overtones...) ANOTHER QUEST! He told me to go pilfer a few pumpkins from the dumb farmers in the nearby... farm, so posthaste pilfer a prominent pile of pretty pumpkins I did. From right under their stupid farmer noses. I returned to him, got some exp and probably a piece of poopy equipment, and continued down the road. I killed whatever stupid bat-things I saw on the way, because I didn't like what they were saying about my mother. Or something. Same with the dog creatures. Probably got some useless items to sell to a vendor. Or something.

I found another farm on my way, this one inhabited by fellow undead duders, and met my first tailoring trainer. Being a mage, I decided 'what the [lollipop!]', and learned how to make clothes. I was totally broke and had no cloth, so it didn't do me any good, but at least it left me with no skill points to spend on a useful skill, right?. I hung out and killed the zombies for the quest there, and collected some linen to get myself started, before continuing across the bridge to Brill. I got my tailoring high enough to be able to make myself a linen belt, then waited until I had 30 skill so I would be able to make a Brown Linen Robe, drooling over the +1 spirit *pumps fist excitedly*

I got to Brill, and it was almost completely a ghost town; the only drones present were just exploring rather than leveling, and really had no business outside of the newbie lands. There were a few around my level, but not many. Having gotten to Brill, and being one of the only people that could say this at that time, I explored the various buildings, then went to the inn and found the mage trainer. Spent what little silver I had managed to accumulate on getting my shiny new skills, then collected what quests I could in the area, and bolted. I completed whatever quests there were, and got a chunk of exp and probably some more poopy equipment. It gave me joy to see the vast amount of effort I put into completing those newbie quests (read: not very much effort) paid off with such amazing equipment (read: worthless equipment). I imagine it would be quite a bit better for a melee class that would get dps upgrades, but for a mage, the difference was about a total of 20 armor. Needless to say, I was dancing for joy. But only because watching my duder dance gave me pleasure. I then went out a bit, just to check stuff out. An explorer was me! I went to Undercity and looked around (at first, it is really hard to understand, but after a few go-throughs, it's pretty intuitive) and got the flightpath. Then to I went Silverpine Forest, got owned by a wolf; I did the corpse run and did a 180, only to run in to these sexy beasts:

{Insert cool screenie of me standing in front of an area blocked off by a group of huge infernals that isn't here because I'm a tard and can't get it working}

After seeing these guys, I did what any sensible masochist would do.... CHARGE!!!

{Insert another neat pic of the infernals, except this time 'Release Spirit is written on the screen, as is the text 'Guardian of Blizzard casts Death Touch on you' x3, followed by the text 'You die'. Oh yea. Stupid me and not being able to get the images to upload.}

After those things gave me a sound spanking, I decided dying patheticly twice within a short period of time wasn't good enough for me, and continued checking around the area. I found another fork in the road and followed it north, to be greeted by some pissed off humans at the Scarlet Monestary. Yay. Stupid humans... grumble, grumble. I'm pretty sure, at some point, I climbed up the tower that is there (which I later learned was the zeppelin tower, and you have to wait for it. And I'm pretty sure, at some point, I jumped off said tower. Ow. Then, later I got Slow Fall, and started running up the tower for no reason other than to jump off.

For the record, at this point, I had:

Fireball rank 2
Frostbolt rank 2
Polymorph rank 1
Conjure food/water rank 1 (Biggest reason I liked being a mage is RIGHT here!)
Arcane Intellect rank 1
Frost Armor rank 1
Fire Blast rank 1
Ability to get owned hard rank 1500


Done for now. If I can think of anything else to add, I'll add it, Unless I don't, then I won't.
Section 2 coming later. Tomorrow, possibly. After tomorrow, meh. I'll do it! Get off my back!





Clink, Clink, Clink...
My pickaxe fell on the stone time and time again high in the mountains of Dun Morogh. I had done it a thousand times before and this one was not looking to be any different than the others.
Clink, Clink, Crack...
I kneeled down and picked up the chunk of stone I had knocked loose, it was near twilight and my eyes must have been playing tricks with me. Instead of the copper I had expected to find in the rock wall I held in my hand a strange purple gem. I rubbed my eyes and held the the gem slightly further from my eyes to try and get a better look at it. It was no good, my eyes still wouldn't focus in the shadows of the rock walls surrounding me. I stuffed the gem inside my shirt and looped my climbing rope through my belt again. I had half started repelling down the wall when it came to my attention that my pickaxe was still leaned against the wall so I struggled my way back onto the ledge and grabbed for my pickaxe. Instead of my pickaxe I found something much more terrifying.

It was then that I found myself staring up at the matted hair on the knees of a wendigo. The sight made me jolt with adrenaline and I lost my footing on the rocks below me and spun out of control dangling from a rope held in place on the wallen by nothing more than a single metal spike. In my panic I reached for my pickaxe on my belt loop. In my current state of mind it came as a surprise to me that my axe was nowhere to be found. Thinking through my haze of enorphins and adrenaline I realized what had happened and refocused my strength on getting a firm hold on the wall for the time being.

Frenziedly I dug in my bag for anything that might prove useful in defeating the beast, which still stood dumbfounded from my last display. All I had left was a single haunch of meat. I weighed my options and the probability for success if I tried to distract the yeti long enough to retrieve my pick and descend off of the snowy rock face. The odds didn’t look good, but it wasn’t the first bad situation I had been through with my pick and I wasn’t about to make this the last.

I pulled the greasy meat out of my bag and unwrapped it from the cloth napkin I had folded over it. The wendigo caught the scent of the meat and widened his eyes to try and get a better look at the curious object I presented before him. I crept slowly along the rock face keeping a firm grip on the rope tied to my waist. When I was close enough that I thought I might be able to make it to my tools in one final burst I flaunted the meat in front of his eyes. He followed it back and forth intently. I gave it one more pass and then through it between his legs onto the ground behind him. The monstrous mountain creature lumbered backwards a few steps and swung his enormous head down between his legs to take a peek behind him. I pushed off of my footholds and crashed clumsily into the ledge, I struggled up onto it and sprinted across it to my instrument, as soon as I had my hand on it I quickly reversed my approach and dove back off of the ledge relying on the strength of the hook I had placed on the cliff to secure my rope.

The wendigo, whom was now contently munching away watched in curiosity as the entire scene took place and became slightly concerned when he saw the industrial strength climbing rope snap like a single thread and watched me begin my tumbling decent to the snow bank below. I was relatively comfortable on the way down, missing many of the more jagged outcroppings and loose rocks, but the landing was an entirely different story. A flash of white light and searing hot pain started off the experience, next came my entire life, or at least the parts I could still remember and even some parts that I thought I had forgotten. Once the story of my life had ended the pain continued until a soothing shadow pulled over me and I felt myself being pulled through the very shell of my body. I was torn from time and space completely and soon found myself haunting a nearby graveyard.

Hopefully my posthumous mining experiences go a little better than my previous one, but ya can’t complain, it’s all in a days work.

Brutamus
Dwarven Mining Paladin of Dun Morogh



Here's part 2, would've done it all in 1 go, but I got pulled away when first writing it so I submitted it as 2 parts.

Please note that this part will be different than the first as I felt the need to revise it as more of a comedy, it helps lead up to the end a little better I think.

Here it is!

The day the world ended part 2/or An even longer swim/or Keep your enemies closer.

'You misbegotten son of a scourge!' Marss yelled as he continued to beat me with his staff.

'How was I to know about fatigue?!?!? We're undead, we're supposed to be able to breath water!' I yelled back while trying to defend myself.

Marss screamed in frustration and threw his staff to the ground, and sat down with his arms crossed with a very angry look on his face.

'What do you propose we do now mr 'Let's go swim half way around the world and drown' We're on the wrong damned continent now!'

Marss was right to be angry, we discovered we were on the continent of Kalimdor after our spirits were brought back to the real world by the powers that be, when we were supposed to be on Azeroth.

'I think someone above got things screwed up, that's why we're here. I'm sorry Marss, I'll find someway for us to get out of this.'

'I hope so Dom, time is running very short.'

He was right, everywhere around us we saw signs of the world ending. Everyone was in mass hysteria, running around screaming about how it was the end, and they wouldnt see the light of day again until the season of the cold.

I sat down next to Marss and began to try to think of a solution to the problem.

After a while I was starting to give up, and I began to survey the area we were in, somehow it seemed vaguely familiar...

'By the lady Sylvannas! I know where we are Marss, this is the Barrens, we're close to the crossroads!'

Marss looked at me with a puzzled look on his face. 'How could you possibly know that? When could you have ever been here before?'

I didnt have an answer for him. 'I don't know, but I've seen this before. Through the eyes of someone else... someone connected to me somehow. But I know where to go to get to the Alliance lands!'

I chuckled and began sprinting through the plains to the east, leaving Marss to catch up to me as usual, I dont know about him sometimes, it seems as though I have to drag him everywhere, he doesnt have the zeal for exploration like I do.

'I dont know about Dom sometimes.' Marss thought to himself. 'I think he's a little cracked in the head.'

After nearly dying by the hands of some of the most exotic, gigantic, and just plain ugly looking monsters I had ever seen, we finally reach our destination...

Ratchet, the home of the Goblins of Kalimdor.

Shouts from the various Goblin merchants rose high above the sounds of the busy town, proclaiming cure alls, Dwarfbegone, something called Stress Test Beta T-shirts (what an odd name for a shirt, these Goblins are weird folks if you ask me) and many other various wares.

After dragging the enchanted eyes looking Marss away from many a chances of bankruptcy at some of the shops, we came upon the docks of Ratchet.

'ahhh cmon Dom, let's go back, they have the new issue of Playdead out! Did you see the ribs on the one on the cover?!?'

'Shut up Marss, it's time to leave.'

'Leave? leave where? we're sittong on a dock looking at the ocean where can we... YOU BETTER NOT BE THINKING ABOUT SWIMMING AGAIN!!!!'

I laughed. 'No you fool, our transportation has arrived.'

The trans continental ship had finally arrived, it was time to continue our journey, well, after 20 minutes of trying to drag Marss onto the ship because he was afraid I'd go wacky and make us jump off half the way there and swim some more.

We set sail and left Kalimdor heading southeast towards Booty Bay situated on the southern tip of Azeroth.

PS: I might add, that Marss accomplished something no Forsaken had ever done before, 'seeing that we dont eat, nor have stomachs' the ability to vomit off the side rails of a ship for three hours straight.

*******

After departing the ship, we took a moment to ask around town about the best way to travel to the Alliance lands. After being laughed at by many a powerful looking Horde follower, (and after three large scale battles between the Horde and Alliance, hey, we woulda joined, but fighting someone who could kill you just by looking at you was not our goal for the last few hours on the world) we discovered that the roads north were surrounded by very powerful agressive monsters, who would devour us without a second thought.

I had to come up with another solution, after studying my map for some time, I grimaced. Marss was not going to like this.

I walked to the edge of the dock and looked down. 'Hey Marss, come look, there's a very hot naked Forsaken swimming down there!'

Marss wasted no time running to the edge to look, and I wasted no time pushing him into the bay.

I have to cut out a section here, as it is not suitable for many a younger person thanks to Marss' insistance at using every swear word known (and quite a few he very skilly invented on the spot) after me telling him we'd be doing a lot more swimming.

******

'We're here. Keep your head below water in case someone is watching from the shore.' I whispered to Marss.

We were floating a little ways out into the ocean along the coast of Westfall, trying to find a suitable landing location.

'Are those Murlocs on the shore?' Marss asked in disbelief. 'Those damned things are everywhere!'

'I guess we have something in common with the humans after all.' I said with a chuckle. 'Come on, it's time we set go ashore.'

It took a while navigating around the murlocs to not cause a disturbance which might give us away to the human outpost known as Sentinel Hill just a few miles to the east, but we managed due to my expert navigating skills.

'Ok, from here on, we dont hide, we head straight for their closest town, dont stop for anything, just keep going, we kill the first Alliance person we see, are you ready?'

Marss grinned evily. 'Do you even need to ask?'

'Ok! We go north!' I set off at a dead sprint with Marss, for once, finally keeping pace with me.

I was very surprised at the dark bleakness of Westfall, it very much reminded me of Tirisfal Glades during the day, just a lot more red in color.

It took about twenty minutes, but we finally stopped when we hit the north coast.

'Wait, this isnt right, we went the wrong way.' I said after checking my map. 'We go southeast!'

Marss grumbled as we set a new direction heading almost directly back from where we came.

Another 20 minutes later...

'Crap, too far east, we have to turn west a bit.'

Marss had finally had enough.

'&)^#*^$^&@)((#$&^$^%)(@(# YOU SON OF A *^#^^$^ I'LL NEVER FOLLOW YOU AGAIN (#&$*&^^%^'

My mouth dropped in schock, how could he be so rude, after all I had done to bring him along on my prolific quest.

I froze as I saw a Human Paladin head our way. 'HIDE!' I yelled.

We both made a running dive for a patch of hay and buried ourselves inside of it. We wanted to kill humans, but noway were we going to face a Paladin, it's not a fair fight. For some reason an odd voice kept saying 'nerf' in my head, who knows, back to the story.

The Paladin must not have seen us as he ran past us heading southwest.

'Come on Mars,We're going to follow him to the town!'

It wasnt long before we arrived. Nor was it long before we were swarmed by more Alliance members in this one small location than the Horde had in entire countries.

We were brought back to the world many times before the Alliance finally tired of trying to kill us, seeing we were already dead to begin with, and they proceeded to start to celebrate their victory with a dancing party.

(Just had to add, that those skinbags have the stupidest looking dance moves I've ever seen. It's a wonder they dont make themselves vomit, let alone me)

Marss and I sat in the middle of the Cemetary, our shoulders slunken, and our hearts (well, I still have half of mine, Marss' kind of desterorated a few years back, but he refuses to admit it) sitting in the bottom of our chest. We had failed our quest.

Out of nowhere, Marss stood up, threw down his staff, and every other pieceof clothing short of his underwear, and started walking towards the Alliance.

'And he calls me nuts.' I said in disbelief.

But, I figured, I would stand by his side, no matter what, so I threw down my staff, took off my VERY waterlogged clothes, and followed Marss.

WE walked to within ten feet of them, when the Alliance realized we were back, and they had all surrounded us again.

'They're trying to ruin our party guys, our farewell party!' Said a Night Elf.

'Aye, the Boney Arse Bastards are up to no good!.'

'Wait... You guys are having a farewell party? You know about the end too?' I asked, slowly realizing that they werent celebrating their victory over us.

They looked at me with shock. 'You... can speak common? But, you're Undead!'

'No, we are Forsaken, get it right. And yes we can...'

I stopped and thought for a second.

'Listen, my friend and I here just traveled around the world and back to try to do something special before it all ends. And seeing that it really is just about time... can we... join your party?'

Marss gasped.
The Night Elves looked appaled.
The Dwarves looked drunk.
The Gnomes were too small for me to tell what they looked like.

I thought we were going to be lynched again, right there, until the most powerful of them all, the Paladin that had ran past us outside of town stepped forward. 'This is the end I thought, our souls will be forever bound from this world.'

'We would be glad to have you join us.' He said, and he held out his hand to shake mine.

And shake his hand I did.

'Great, let's get this party going again!.' I said with a grin. 'Oh, and I think I need to teach you skinnies how to dance, you're really very horrible.'

The party lasted a few hours before the end finally came, but we barely noticed, as what had happened was so special. The joining of two mortal enemies in the hopes of enjoying our world one last time before it came to an end.

The Paladin and I had a very heated dance competition where I trashed him badly (I dont care what everyone else said, he sucks!)

And I'm not really sure what happened to Marss for the last little bit, he seemed to disapear the same time that the very Buxom female dwarf did.

The End.


Well guys, that's it. This story was written about my last three hours during stress test, where me and another player named Marss who I had grouped with a lot decided to go on a wacky adventure. Most of it is true except for the obvious comedy filler. And Marss wasnt ticked off at me, he laughed more than anything even thought I kept getting him killed. But we had one hell of a time. It was really a moment in my game playing history that will probally never be matched in uniqueness.

Thanks for reading guys.

Oh, and Marss, if you happen to read this, give me a shout at domdevore@hotmail.com



This is a story about the last few hours I spent in the Stress Test, it was almost over, Marss and I knew we had to do something fun to go out with a bang... Boy, and what a bang.

The day the world ended, or... A long Swim.


Marss and I arrived at the inn located in Brill after a long day of purging the lands of the enemies of the Forsaken.

We sat down with depressed looks on our faces, and began inspecting our equipment.

'It's almost time.' Marss said with a sad look on his face.

'I know. I can't believe it's almost over, it's been one hell of a time. But all good things must come to an end.'

We grew silent for a while, reflecting back on our adventures in the land called Azeroth.

After polishing the shaft of my staff for what seemed like an hour, a thought came to me.

'We have to do something Marss, we cant spend our last hours on this world like this, we have to do something... something we havent done before!'

Marss looked at me with curiousity on his face. 'What do you have in mind Dom?'

The thought began to form in my mind, then an evil grin grew on my face.

'I want to kill humans... not just any humans... members of the Alliance!'

Marss scoffed at me. 'There's no way we can do it, the Alliance lands are too far away. There's no time, the whispers going around are saying that it will be over in a matter of hours.'

'We can do it Marss... We have to do it... I know! We'll swim!'

Marss looked like he was about to slap me, but then, he smiled.

'Let's do it Dom, we got nothing to lose I guess.'

I chuckled. 'You are right about that my friend, let's go!' I grabbed my pack and staff and ran out of the inn, heading south for the Silverpine forest.

It took a while for Marss to catch up, but by the time he did, we were standing on the west coast of Azeroth, gazing out across the ocean.

I looked at Marss, smiled, and ran into the water, not even looking to see if he followed, but I knew he did, I could hear him cursing me in the name of Sylvannas as he swam behind me.

The sights I saw along the ocean floor were amazing, crashed ships, gargantuan oyster shells, and many ancient things that begged to be seen up close, but not that day.

After swimming south along the coast for a while, I yelled out to Marss. 'I think we should start swimming west a bit more, so we can make a straight line past the peninsula. Head out a bit.'

It seemed like a good idea at the time...

Part 2 to come very soon.






Vamphere, Stalker of Booty Bay
by Vamphere 	September 23, 3:57 am
2862 Views
Advertisement

My tale begins as a bold young Hunter of only 13 levels swimming with all my might down the coast of the vast jungle of Stranglethorn Vale. After much effort and straining to fight back the fatigue of the long journey, I arrived at the gates of the famed Booty Bay.

I learned quickly that my gun and sword were no match for the horde's superior warriors, unless accompanied by borthers of the alliance, so I devised a plan and quickly put it to action. I would jump from roof top to roof top until running across an appropriate hideout (usually behing a chimney or some structure).Image 1 From there I would creep onto the ledge of the roof and mark any passing horde using the Hunter's Mark as to alert fellow Alliance of the Hordes presense. Then I would open fire on my target for a short period of time and retreat back into hiding, after they began to continue walking I would open fire once more. This usually attracted more alliance or resulted in confused horde trying to climb walls (hehe). When rooftops were unavailable for any reason, I would pull yet another trick to fool the Horde fighters. I would get out of sight but close enough to shoot, then I would open fire with a stunning concussion shot and hit the target with all the firepower I had then I would proceed to run into an upper room of a certain building in which there were bales of hay scattered across the floor, I would then use the /lay command and hide in the hay. My location was easily over looked by pursuers. Image 2 I would continue this until either I or my attacker were dead.

In the short time I was at Booty Bay many Horde fell to my gun even though they were far superior in level (and more polished classes by blizzard).Image 3 This was by far the most exciting time of my career in the stress test, and proves hunters are NOT at a PvP disadvantage. Using surroundings to your advantage may sound cheap and cowardly, but I dont't see it that way, I see it as just a way to even the odds and add some humor to the current pvp.
Overall this was an extremely fun style of play and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a chance to PvP early in the game. 




Hurgish the Stressed Warrior
by Ivan Stanislav 	September 22, 3:04 am
2021 Views
Advertisement

My first attempt to get into the stress test involved going onto fileplanet and being told that you had to be a paying member of the service to get a spot. Nevertheless, being a poor college guy, I wasn’t about to pay money in order to get into the test, so I ignored and I figured I had lost my shot.

Luckily, due to having Doom 3, I searched the server a few days later to get a mod and tried to sign up, and to my amazement I got in!

So, after waiting until the stress test went live, I decided that I’d make what I probably would make when the retail came out: An orc warrior. Going against my judgment, which said to play a Human because they were more polished, I went with my favorite core race and decided that since warriors had talents and seemed rather balanced, I let that decide my choosing.

Being that this was my first MMORPG ever, I had some learning to do. I found that the controls and the interface for WoW was easy to grasp and within just a little bit of time I had mastered how to move Hurgish, my warrior, around The Den.

Initially, I had a very difficult time getting quests done, primarily because droves of Stress Testers were just starting, just like me. However, after a while the group slowly thinned out and I got to enjoy some more of the individualized aspects of the game. Moving through the levels between 1-10 seemed to go at a lightning pace, and it wasn’t until after level ten that things seemed to really slow down a bit for me. I chose to be a miner and a blacksmith, which seemed to be a perfect combination for a warrior.

For the most part I kept to myself until reaching the barrens. I suppose being new to the whole MMORPG thing left me a bit timid when asking for help from other players. My major reaction was how much fun people were having while they played. This could be seen through the chat window as people discovered things, danced, and just immersed themselves in the game.

Hitting the Barrens was a milestone in the game, that and Orgrimmar, whose size was truly amazing. The Barrens was a turning point, however, because the world seemed to open up more and you ran into more exotic races. More Tauren and Undead were present, and occasionally you even saw an Alliance player. I played on the Malygos server, so it wasn’t a PvP server.

I made some great friends while I played too; most notably a Tauren Hunter named Reav and an Undead Warrior named Janath. I did most of the quests in the Barrens and worked through some of the Stonetalon Mountains. The only quests that I didn’t finish were the Wailing Caverns quests. I came close, but never got through them all unfortunately.

On the last day of the stress test, I had finished all the quests that I wanted to and decided it was fruitless to start any more, so I explored a bit. One foray led me, at lvl 23, to head into the Thousand Needles area with a lvl 25 Warlock named Petlock. Of which we got our rear ends soundly handed to us by some elves and ate our humble pie gratefully.

With these occurrences ground into my head, I decided to try some raiding. However, being on a non-PvP server really didn’t let me get the true experience. Staring at a potential enemy until his friends come and then he declares his willingness to fight really wasn’t much fun.

My biggest complaint wasn’t about the game itself, but rather the community. By the last day, when the competition was in full swing, it seemed that everyone got angry at one another. I suppose it’s because people were jealous and angry that they weren’t going to be able to play longer, but then the arguing, the fighting, and the ‘noob’ calling was getting WAY out of control. I truly hope that when the retail comes out, it isn’t like that.

Insofar as my experience with a warrior is concerned, I truly enjoyed it. No battle was ever really the same and it had enough options to not be monotonous. Ultimately, I gave up on tradeskills because I wanted to focus on other parts of the game and spent a whopping 200 SP’s on using a gun, because I thought a gun toting orc would be interesting.

Before playing this game, I wasn’t going to buy it and pay/mo, but Blizzard has already got a solid game, with a great atmosphere and product on the way and I will definitely buy it. In the end, Hurgish wielded a 2 handed axe and got to level 27, a nice, solid level for any respectable orc warrior.

When I get the retail, I plan on remaking Hurgish, as well as an undead mage for sure.




The Shaman
by DarknessCrusader 	September 20, 6:40 pm
2643 Views
Advertisement

A Guide to Playing the Shaman
by DarknessCrusader
for WorldofWar.net

The Shaman is one of the most versatile classes in World of WarCraft. They can easily act as Healer, Tank, Caster, and Buff-giver. But knowing when to change roles takes practice. Hopefully this guide will help you decide what role you want to specialize in and what you need to help you function during that role. Or if you want to be like me and try to do it all! :)


Melee-Shaman
The melee-shaman is the most common of all the shamans.

Race: Tauren for thier strength or Orc for thier nuetrality.

Equipment: These are the shamans who focus more on Stamina (for hit-points), Strength (melee damage), and Agility (shield block). High armor is also important as these guys will take alot of punishment. Weapons with stun, disarm, or some form of slow effect are also highly valued. 1-handed maces or axes are common for higher damage. Daggers are also widely used, especially against casters, for thier quicker speed rate. The more often you hit a caster, the slower thier spells get cast.

Spells: Weapon buffs and defensive totems are favored. Flametongue (for faster weapons) and Windfury (slower weapons) are used most for maximum damage output. Stoneskin Totem (defense), Grace of Air (blocking), and Healing Totem are recommended. If 2 shamans are together, Earthbind or Strength of Earth (depends on situation), Windwall or Grounding (depends on opponents), and Fire Resistance or Mana Spring Totems (again, situation) can be used. Purge (remove an effect) and Earthshock (cancel a cast) are also very useful. Frost Shock can be used if an opponent is running away to help slow them down. And of course, Lightning Shield should always be up and will quickly become the spell most often cast by the melee-shaman. Heals and Rebirths cast as needed.

Professions: Blacksmithing/ Mining is very useful for the higher level melee-shaman to help get those high damage weapons and nice armor. Only suitable after level 40 though and the best Blacksmithing armors will be of plate and unusable by the shaman. Leatherworking/ Skinning is another nice route, being extremely useful from day one. Even at higher levels, when the melee-shaman will be wanting mail armor, the leatherworking profession will help quinch that desire. Though not as defensive as the blacksmithing armors, leatherworking armors also come with extremely nice bonuses on them like stun opponent when hit and damage opponent when hit. Also note, Mining generally gives more income than Skinning, if money is an issue to your character.

Talents: The Exaltation (melee) tree will be your playground. Parry, bonuses to your preferred weapon buff, and the Grace Totem highly recommended.

Weakness: Lower health will keep you from going neck-to-neck with a Warrior or Paladin. In times of trouble, the melee-shaman has a harder time filling another role quickly.


Healer-Shaman
The healer-shaman is the most desired of all the shamans in a party.

Race: Troll for thier Spirit or Orc for thier nuetrality.

Equipment: These shaman will want to focus more on Intelligence (mana), Spirit (hit point/ mana regeneration), and Stamina (hit points). Armor and weapons that add to your mana are extremely useful. Staves are generally preferred for thier mana and casting bonuses.

Spells: Chain Heal (heal multiple party members) and Lesser Healing Wave (quick heal) are the main two spells used by the healer-shaman. Stoneskin Totem, Healing Totem, and either Windwall (ranged defense) or Grounding (spell defense) Totem recommended. Purge and Earthshock should also be ready when needed. Rebirth, Cure Poison, and Cure Disease cast as needed.

Professions: Alchemy/ Herbalism is the ONLY way to go. Mana potions are a healer-shaman's best friend and are fairly easy to make. First Aid is also nice for when mana is low.

Talents: All your points will go into the Restoration (healing) tree. Bonuses to Lesser Healing Wave and Healing Totem are a necessity. Also, Nature's Swiftness is nice for when you need to heal that tank ASAP; use in conjunction with your normal Healing Wave.

Weakness: Aggro can keep you from doing your job at all and if there's a Priest present, you are pretty much not needed.


Caster-Shaman
The caster-shaman is not generally found for they're fairly disadvantaged.

Race: Troll for thier Spirit or Orc for thier nuetrality.

Equipment: The main reason there are no caster-shaman is that thier mana pool is generally too small, so every point you can get into Intelligence is a must. Wear cloth armor if you have to, just get that mana up. Staves are also a must for thier helpful casting and mana bonuses.

Spells: Lightning will be your first cast. Chain Lightning is not recommended for you do NOT want to aggro several opponents at one time. Just cast Lightning till the mob is close enough to cast Frostshock (for slowing effect) on. After that, cast Moltenblast (dot damage) and then Frostshock again. Repeat. Also make sure you have an Earthbind and Searing Totem down. Windwall or Grounding should also be kept at the ready. The main tactic of the caster-shaman will be to slow the opponent and keep moving away while nuking with the Instants. Also keep Lesser Healing Wave at the ready for when you do get hit.

Professions: Alchemy/ Herbalism would be the best for mana potions. Tailoring/ Enchanting could also prove useful for alot of cloth armor has nice mana and casting bonuses and you can also enchant Intellegence and Mana bonuses to your gear. First Aid is also nice to have so you can conserve your mana for offensive spells.

Talents: Spirit Tree for maximum spell usage. You might decide to focus on either Lightning or on Fire spells, but both are equally useful to the caster-shaman. Definitely buff up on your Instant shocks whichever way you go.

Weekness: Since everything is thrown into your mana pool, melee combat renders you dead. Must always be moving or on a retreat. Will never replace a mage for lack of mana, spell damage, and devastating or extremely useful talents.


While soloing, a melee-shaman will generally fare better, especially in PvP, but in a party a healer-shaman is usually more desired. Caster-shamans will definitely have the harder time in both situations, but are still highly possible to adventure with. Just remember you will never achieve the power of a mage. You can also go with a combination of two or all three shaman types, but you will be greatly limiting your power. But remember, just because you're a melee or a caster does not mean you can't heal and vice versa. A shaman's strenth is in thier versatility. You're mainly just showing your strenths and weeknesses and playing what more suites your style. Personally I am more of a healer-melee-shaman, with an emphasis on Spirit and Intellegence for I cast lots of heals and shocks and throw tons of totems. And for me, Alchemy is a must!

Oh... and I was going to add a more specific inventory recommendation. But items change with every patch, and who knows what the next patch will bring. But if you have anything to add, please feel free to do so. I'm not an expert after all... just a fan! :)
'For the Horde!'






Life as a Stress-Test Rogue
by Caffeinefiend 	September 19, 2:19 am
1783 Views
Advertisement

Ever since I learned about the development of World of Warcraft, I have been avidly following the community news sites, beta journals, and screenshot galleries. I was among the many people that were disappointed to have missed a spot in the closed beta test. That's way it was even sweeter to have been selected for the 10 day stress test - so much so that I took a week vacation from work to immerse myself fully into Blizzard's latest project.

A lot of beta and stress test journals have already painted a vivid picture of WoW and its features. That's why for my journal entry, I wanted to talk about some of my personal adventures in Azeroth and my general impressions. First things first: I've heard over and over again that screenshots of WoW do not do this game justice. This is absolutely true. Just walking around the different zones and experiencing the music and background effects make the World of Warcraft come alive. Little things like lanterns along the roadways in Duskwood that sway gently in the breeze. Little puffs of steam from your character's breath as they leave a trail of footprints in the snows of Dun Morogh. A mother deer leading her baby fawn along a riverbank in Elwynn Forest. Blizzard's artists have done an amazing job of making this game a feast for the eyes, right down to the smallest detail.

I don't have much to compare the World of Warcraft, as this was my first experience with an MMORPG. Throughout the stress test, I decided to play a single character and focus on quests and exploring. And so I created a Dwarven rogue named Balvo on a non-pvp server. The interface and controls were very intuitive and easy to learn, allowing players to hit the ground running. After progressing through the starting Dwarf zone, I eventually arrived at Ironforge just as I reached level 10. Towns and villages along the way simply did not prepare me for how large the cities in WoW are. It took me an hour just to run around Iron Forge for a quick look around at the many shops and vendors. The guards were extremely helpful in the larger cities like Stormwind - which is even bigger than Iron Forge - because you could ask guards for directions to specific class and trade skill trainers. After asking for directions to the rogue trainer, I noticed that an arrow was added to my mini-map to further aid players in finding the right NPC.

Playing as a rogue had many advantages, particularly in combat. The various moves and combos were very useful in different situations - both playing solo and in a group. For example, when I was soloing, I tended to mix sinister strikes, gouges, and backstabs into combos that would lead to eviscerates - a finishing move that would tear a large chunk of health off a target and help dispatch the enemy more quickly. Whereas, when I would group with 2 to 5 players, I could play my rogue much differently, simply by changing up my combos. Instead of going for quick kills, I would throw more DOTs, feints, and kicks into the fight. I'd also tended to finish combos with expose armor, which would significantly reduce the armor of the target and make it easier for the rest of the group to kill. Grouping also helped me take on enemies that were 2-4 levels above my current experience level.

Stealth opened up even more rogue abilities and combo moves, while providing a very effective way to scout out camps and sneak past some trickier situations. Another great rogue ability was poisons, especially different type of poisons. Crippling poisons helped slow enemy movements, which was great against warriors, while mind-numbing poisons helped slow down caster's spell times.

Towards the last day of the stress test, I managed to get my rogue to level 30. Along the way, I managed to explore instances like the Deadmines in Westfall, the abandoned city of Gnomeregan, and the Stockades of Stormwind. I traveled through the human lands of Elwynn Forest, Duskwood and the Redridge Mountains. I also visited the Dwarf areas of Dun Morogh, Loch Modan, and the Wetlands. I even managed to see some of the Alterac Mountains and Hillsbrad, which bordered the Undead lands.

I really think Blizzard has made the game engaging for PVP without leaving lower level characters open to attack from higher players from the opposing faction. I played on a non-pvp server, and so pvp was a consensual affair. I bumped into many Taurens, Undead, Orcs, and even a few Trolls along the road. Most of the time we simply waved at one another or made rude gestures... The only way to start a fight in non-contested areas was if one of us turned on /pvp. It was then up to the other person to decide whether to attack or not. If they did, then they would also become pvp enabled. If not, the person who was pvp enabled simply had to wait 5 minutes before pvp became disabled again. There was one exception: If a NPC guard attacked a player from the opposing faction, that player would become pvp enabled. It was still up to me though, whether to join the attack and open myself up to pvp. The last day of the stress test saw quite a few raids on the server I was playing on, and I was able to take part in a number of pvp fights. It really felt like the end of the world when both raiding Horde and Alliance players started dancing in Goldshire in our underwear, drinking beer and wine, shooting fireworks and challenging each other to duels.

I definitely have a lot of memories from my brief time in Azeroth. I thought that grouping would be much more difficult while playing a rogue, but I found lots of people who wanted rogues to pull and to help keep aggro off the casters and healers. The friends list in WoW helps players stay in touch with people they've met and see where they're questing and what level they're currently playing at. I found an excellent partnership between my rogue and a lvl 29 priest named Buttercup. We did a number of quests together and got to know each other's playing style - I would stealth, stun and generally keep aggro with all the damage I could do, while Buttercup would buff, heal, and occasionally throw in a mind blast nuke or two. Along with another level 27 priest, we were able to accomplish one quest in the Wetlands where we had to kill a lvl 32 Elite Orcish Chief. I managed to pull the chief away from his bodyguards and generally stay at half health throughout the fight while the two priests would take turns throwing heals and absorb buffs on me. This quest demonstrated to me the very best of WoW and its quest system: I never could have killed that chief without those priests' heals, just as the priests could never have taken down the chief by themselves. Yet, we were able to take care of a more powerful adversary together and prevail.

If I've learned anything from this stress test is that the World of Warcraft will be a very successful game. I can't even begin to imagine how much more polish we'll see by the time the open beta and then the retail version of the game come around. I'm also looking forward to trying out some of the other races/classes and also seeing Kalimdor - I didn't even leave the eastern continent during the beta! I decided to save some of the zones like the Night Elf forests and the Barrens for retail. Oh, I also learned one more thing too: Make sure to tip your priests when you're in a group and you're sure to be one of the first people they heal or resurrect...

See you all in the open beta and retail.

Balvo - Level 30 Dwarven Rogue





Corpse Campers
by DarknessCrusader 	September 18, 12:13 pm
5481 Views
Advertisement

Well... it was a nice long day of questing in Tanaris and I was about to fall asleep at my keyboard. The wife had already gone to bed awhile ago and I had just wanted to finish up that last quest before heading that way myself. The quest got finished and I was off to Gadgetzan to turn in my quest and then turn in myself. My friends decided to go the other way and adventure some more. Bad luck for me it would turn out, for once I hit the southern gate to Gadgetzan, Alliance where all over me.

There where four of them total, the main one being a dwarf warrior named Bobbeh. The other three just hung back and made sure I couldn't fight back or escape. Funny thing, two of those other three, the druid and the priest, my party and I had met before seperately. We didn't bother them and even helped the druid find her destination. Seems they aren't as kind as us Horde players though.

Anyway, I tried to show them that I wasn't interested in fighting. I just wanted to get to the quest guy and go to the Inn. I didn't fight back and I even gave polite gestures and smilies to show I wasn't in any kind of situation to duel. I love to duel, don't care as much for PvP, but this was beyond any of that. They just laughed at my lack of involvement as they continued to corpse camp me for a whopping total of 13 times. That's about 30 minutes of the four of them tormenting one single player.

Image 1Finally the dwarf made some rude gestures and let me go on my way... which ended up being about two steps into the wrath of a level 55 mage named Acturus. Again I showed no intent to fight and tried to show that I just needed by. The five of them just laughed some more while guarding my corpse and making sure I didn't get a single step towards my destination (which was just the Inn by this point.)
My friends where on thier way, but they where aways away in a different zone by this point. A couple of other Horde players in the zone volunteered thier time to come and help me out also. Finally after the 37th (YES, Thirty-Seventh) time being corpse camped, everyone had shown up and the war waged.. Well... actually the 4 Horde players attacked the 5 Alliance campers, plus 2 other Alliance who just happened to be in town at the time. And then the Alliance ran away except for the mage, Acturus who felt he could take us all on by himself.

The fool Acturus kept on attacking... and kept on dying. It was mildly ammusing watching this jerk go down over and over again. Note, we did not corpse camp him; He just kept attacking us.

Finally a couple of the Alliance who had ran off came back... with buddies. Alliance have this habit of not fighting if the odds are anywhere near even. :P

With 13 Alliance in town (over half of which was level 50+), and the 5 of us Horde (of which only 1 was 50+), things didn't go well for us. We attacked them anyways, and kept on attacking for we knew we couldn't win, but we are not the cowards they are and we wanted to let them know that!

Finally after I died another six or seven times, the wife came in and almost killed me herself. Seemed she didn't appreciate the fact I had not gone to bed 2 hours ago when I told her I would. Oops.

Anyway, when I finally made it to the Inn, three Alliance in tow throwing spells the entire way, I believe most the Horde where corpses, but still not giving up. Would have liked to of stayed if only to help out any way I could, or hopefully to see more reinforcements show up, but they probably would have been for the Alliance. :P

But, if your looking for a moral to this story... it would be I guess to not travel alone when you're anywhere near Alliance players because they generally have no game etiquettes and are only interested in making this wonderful game a pain in the arse to want to play.

-MaD


WoW Stress Test Analysis (part 1)
by Skyghost 	September 18, 4:45 am
1388 Views
Advertisement

Let me first start off by giving a little background. My first mmorpg was UO when it launched back in the 90’s. Since then I’ve been addicted to mmorpgs and played EQ, AC, AO, DAoC, SWG, AC2 and currently I’m playing Planeside. I’ve had a chance to beta test some of them but I had no luck with WoW till the stress test arrived. Let’s just say that I’m a veteran gamer so a lot of my analysis will is based on comparison to other mmorpgs currently on the market. During the stress test I played on the Alextrsza (sp?) server.


The first character I made in WoW was a troll shaman because I heard that it’s the most gimped class/race at the moment according to what people wrote in the forums. I always liked playing the underdog so I went to try it. After familiarizing myself with the UI which was very easy to master I headed out to do the beginner’s quests. The combinations of quests and kills experience got me to level 7 in about 4 hours. I didn’t find anything “gimped” about the class and I even found myself out damaging the warriors of same level in melee combat that were in my group. After reaching level 8 I decided to try other classes and races just to get a feel for each.


After testing out each class and different starting areas I decided to stick with the undead mage (named MadZia) simply because my main avatars in other morphs were always spell casters. I have to point that all the starting areas for every race feel very generic. Each newbie zone has a few small camps with aggressive mobs and a cave or darker part of zone for the level 4-5 quests. This isn’t a bad thing since the first 5 levels only last a few hours but a little bit of diversity would be nice.


The music and ambience sounds in the game are top notch. The undead zone feels spooky and the lord of the rings type female chanting music had me gasping in awe as I explored Tirisfal Glades. Even more music and sounds to diversify part of each zone would be a welcome addition to the WoW gaming experience. Once again, the quests from town of Brill made leveling from 5 to 12 a quick and very enjoyable experience. I also did encounter the first broken quest in this zone but I can’t remember now what it was called. I did send a /bug report for it though. The mage’s ability to summon food/water almost completely eliminated the downtime.


After hitting level 12 I headed south to Silverpine forest. This zone was a lot more exciting because the mobs wander around a lot more and there is also a nasty elite lvl25+ roaming werewolf which killed me and few other unlucky adventurers while I had my guard down. The quests in this zone revolve around the mobs in the zone and 2 human towns with citizens that turn into werewolves. The town of Pyrewood holds to Elite type quests which means that you can’t do them solo.


I found Pyrewood plagued with dozens of pathing issues and other bugs. The main annoyance here was that mobs returning to their spawn points after chasing players away would get stuck at their spawn points (but respawn eventually). Blizzard obviously knows about these pathing issues so it made the mobs invincible if they can’t fight back. There was many times where mobs would become temporarily invulnerable if their pathing would get confused when running at me while I nuked them from the distance. I hope these pathing bugs are on Blizzards top priority list because they sure are annoying.

Part 2 coming soon.

-SkyGhost



Oh sure blame me...
by The silverdeath 	September 18, 1:18 am
1750 Views
Advertisement

I be silverdeath, lvl 15 human rouge and I suppose you can call me an idiot but let me explain why...

It all begun in Westfall one day during stress test, I was just minding my own business when I hear ppl yelling for RAID MEET AT SENT HILL!!! So sure whatever it sounded neat, I came upon Sent Hill with a group of around 30-50 ppl.

Not much to say I followed the mass of group that decided to go through Dusk wood... BAD BAD IDEA for a raid group whoose mostly around lvl 15. Well let me tell you why.

Now Duskwood has seen much better days, it's lands are under constant night with lvl 20 monsters prowling about. Relatively speaking if u stick to the roads and keep an eye out it's not that dangerous but the person who led us, that dumbass decided it would be a wise idea to take a shortcut... neadless to say but defias bandits and big spiders turned our raid group into mincemeat.

As I witnessed the carnage I decided to make a run for it, a human warrior running besides me got completely owned by a large spider. But that didn't stop my run, in the carnage that followed I and a small group of others almost made it to the roads when a pack of wolves turned us into wolf chowder. Well I tried to fight but I doubt I actually could even cut their fur.

Several corpse runs later back in sent hill we had all regrouped together.

I had a completely stupid idea to make light of our situation when I uttered...

F*** THIS LET'S SWIM TO DUROTAR!

there was a moment of silence and awkwardness when suddenly someone shouted out YEAH! And soon everyone was agreeing. I was still joking and I even said FOLLOW ME WE'RE SWIMMING TO DUROTAR!

Which I got... EVERYONE FOLLOW SILVERDEATH!

well for fun's sake I lead my group due west of westfall without much incident and we make straight into the great sea. And begun swimming! It was a long swim and all was going okay when...

I got fatigue I was like... holy sh*t we're f*cked. I thought about swimming back but it was too late (I didn't know jumping up and down solved fatigue.) Someone asked 'Where are we going' I said 'WE'RE GOING TO DUROTAR!' Well what happened next was our entire raid party well.... tired out and drowned! It was a very sad sad sight indeed. And it was too far to be worth a corpse run. So I had to waste some of my xp :/

And of course everyone blamed ME! Heh my bad maybe I shouldn't lead :D



Tales from a Stress Tester
by SamuraiBob 	September 16, 12:44 am
1181 Views
Advertisement

Well, this is my first Journal (ever), and I have been in a couple Betas before (Diablo 2 Stress Test, D2X Closed Beta), and even though I was passed by for the Warcraft 3: ROC, Warcraft 3: TF and the WoW betas, I am not bitter (read: I'm very bitter). But all that is water in a moat now, as I got the opportunity to play the Stress Test.

I found out it was on at 8 o'clock EST the Thursday is started (meaning it had been going on for 3 hours already), and I immediately logged on, located a server I liked (Malygos) and started a Paladin named Core (Its the class I have been waiting to play since I heard about WoW). I began the test, and saw a couple people talking about commands right when i logged in, so I learned a few things about the interface almost immediately. I also grabbed my first quest.

Now, I was a complete newbie, and aside from NeverWinter Nights and a few Persisten World servers I had played on there, and a few years (read: excruciating months) of Evequest, I hadn't really had a lot of experience in a MMORPG setting. Even with the overcrowding of the newbie areas, I still had a blast, and made it to level 5 in just a short time (I had a bedtime of 10, but I stayed up till 11. Note, my bedtime is cause I work, not cause I'm a kid :-P ).

Needless to say, my next day of playing (after work) was fun as anything, as I actually read the quest directions (Kill vermin, not just anything that moves). After finally reading quest directions, I probly made it to level 8 after that first night of staying up til 3 in the morning (no work the next day, yay!).

So I spent the rest of the Test playing Core, and aside from being down once or twice for a few hours at a time, or being too laggy to play (Only the Saturday night when apparently everyone and his mother joined Malygos), it was a really great Test. I only got Core up to level 19, mainly cause I didn't have a big opportunity to play that much more in the evenings (read: Work sucks), and due to having trouble finding groups to help with quests (No one likes me). But all in all, I had a good time, and I can't wait for it to release.

My next Journal will be about the hardships and other stuff I found while playing, and Will probly be posted right after this one.

Bob




Rise to the Top
by ProtectorOfLife 	September 15, 10:03 pm
1265 Views
Advertisement

I'm writing this journal to explain my experience in the stress test. There have been other journal's about it before mine, but what seperates my experience from a lot is that I was the highest horde priest on my server. I never saw an alliance priest higher either (though I never took the time to make a character to check) but that's not important anyway.

Before I begin I will explain a little background and then a little of what I think it takes to get to the top.

I played on the Molygos server (non-pvp) and I was an undead priest. I wasn't always on top, but I was very determined to play this game as much as possible. Being 19 years old in between school and college and on a break from work I had no real responsibilities and thus I could put in the time that was nescessary. Put it this way, if I wasn't sleeping, I was playing...and I didn't sleep much. I would use server-downs as breaks to eat/shower etc. Now you might think a task like this would be very boring/tough/exhausting. It wasn't.

The game was fun, even when I grinded even when I lost sleep over it. Even when I was sitting in town, even when I had to make extra trips 'cause I forgot something. Everything about this game screams fun, which has been missing from a lot of games for a long time (for me at least).

The way to get to the takes a definate skill and finesse as well as understanding of mmo's (this all of course assuming you have the time in the first place). It seemed so enjoyable to me though so it's hard for me to really call it work.

You hear a lot of 'skilless' and 'no life' comments a lot. It's not really insulting it kinda just makes you see how people can be sometimes. Petty.

It felt to me like there is still an obvious leveling curve at least the first 45 or so levels. Some classes level faster and some slower. I would have to say mages or warriors level the fastest. Priests (which what I was) have a definate handicap compared to them.

I had been reading into this game (a lot) since day one and I already knew exactly what I was going to play, what talents I was going to get, etc. before I even started.

The Beginning
In the beginning you can imagine it was very crowded. It was a little laggy and first but it went away surprisingly fast. I went and got my quests right away not to waste any time and then I went out and looked for the mobs to kill. It wasn't easy. To give you an idea some people were camping single spawns. The tap system worked great so it was mostly fair though. There is one quest for undead specifically that the mob timer is slow and there aren't many that spawn. I came back and did this quest later (still some people camping it but I got my turn).

I slowly made my way through the low level quests. The quests can be really fun. One quest you steal pumpkins from farmers when the farmers are a little too strong for you. I had a blast. People got ahead of me quickly, but I just kept playing and I eventually caught up and past all priests. There was one priest in paticular that we were competing back and fourth for #1. After a while he had to work and not only lost the lead but 3 others got ahead of him. I felt bad 'cause he was doing so well and I enjoyed the competition. The lack of competition with priests (at least to my standards) kinda slowed me down and gave me more of a chance to do luxary things such as sleep =).

As I got high level I slowly saw that I had to rest after every 1-3 battles as warriors with first aid seem to go forever. Drinking/potions (I was an alchemist) helps, but the upcoming patch to spirit is definetely required as I have a lot of spirit gear (you get it from quests) and didn't notice a difference.

I had a couple small experiences when alliance came to raid booty bay, but no real challange there as I could one/two shot a lot of them with mindblast. The only real issue was running out of mana 'cause there were so many. On the last day everyone decided to pvp. Not EVERYONE but everyone not racing for a beta spot (I had a marginal lead so I decided to pvp as well). I grouped with a level 45 warrior and a level 40 druid and we went to westfall to look for some action. We got chased around by groups of 20-50 level 10-35's. It was pretty fun just running around swp (shadow word paining) the lower levels and watching them fall as the warrior was swatting them with his axe. They would mass target me and I would fear them and run away and slowly knock off the ones who followed me with instant cast spells.

Before I continue I would like to point out that attacking much lower levels isn't normally my thing but it was very difficult to find people near your level on the other side to fight and I wanted to get a general feel for pvp in general anyway.

I would later run back to heal the warrior so he wouldn't die. He got killed once finally, but I don't think I ever died through the whole thing. The 3-person fear and dots, flash heals, shield and potions seem to really do the job of keeping me alive.

I had a couple experiences with higher level fights but not many.

The one that sticks out was a 2 vs 1 (I was the 1) against a paladin and a mage. I was 36, the paladin was 36 and the mage was 35. The paladin was probably fighting a lot as I saw lots of corpses. Since they were all probably lower levels I thought I'd come to put him in his place. I attacked the paladin before I even saw the mage. The mage ran in from a distance near the end of the fight but I still managed to kill the paladin before the mage got his nuke off on me (it was very close though).

I came back as my graveyard was very close and killed the mage easily (shadow priests seem to really counter mage well). I waited there near the spot for a bit in hopes they'd come back. The paladin came back and healed up (his pvp timer wore off previously so he was not open to attack). After healing, he turned his /pvp on. He was ready for more. We fought again but it seemed he changed his strategy this fight and he did a lot better. He almost got me, but I managed to get a flash heal off and nuke his remaining hps off at the end.

The mage came back with a 35 warrior and I still had pvp on from fighting the paladin. I was open to attack and I was almost sure they would both fight. Warriors are hard enough on their own so I didn't stand much of a chance so I left.

Now I sit here patiently waiting for my competition email to arrive so I can play the game. One thing bad I have to say about this game though is it spoils you. I can't play any other games for more than 5 minutes without getting fed up. That wouldn't be such a bad thing if I could play WoW now. I may post future journals when I have more experience with the game in beta.

In closing I would just like to thank blizzard for making such a great game and for giving me the chance to play in it further. To all the people wanting in this game, but can't be I'd like to say it's worth the wait.



A good beginning
by Datong 	September 15, 8:59 pm
1004 Views
Advertisement

Being a huge Blizzard fan, and a fan of the both the Diablo and Warcraft series, to say I was excited when I heard about their foray into the MMORPG domain is an understatement at best. After all, Diablo did not redefine a genre, it created one. D2 and LOD were so well thought out, and so balanced across classes that they remain playable several years following their release. While Warcraft did not hold my attention like D2 or even Starcraft, it remains an interesting diversion.

So, when WOW was announced, I set my home page to worldofwarcraft.com, (my bad, should have set it to worldofwar.net) downloaded some WOW pics for my desktop, submitted my beta application and waited. And waited. And waited some more. When I got into the Stress Test beta, I was thrilled to finally get to play. But the bar was set pretty high. Perhaps unreasonably high, but I tried to maintain some perspective going in.

First, account creation was a bit obscure because FilePlanet did not send an e-mail with the Blizzard account creation page as promised. After about 15 minutes I got to the account page and created my account. But it was not a good omen. I was reminded of trying to begin FFXI and having about 4 sets of names, passwords, accounts, and log-ins before I got to the character creation screen. I understand that after you shuck out $50 to buy a game running the log-in gauntlet is hardly going to be a deterrent, and I don't want to seem petty, but since account creation is where you are asking for the credit card number, it should be as user simple as it gets.

Next you have to pick a server. There were about 12 up for the Stress Test and the number of players was shown at the selection screen, but there was no ping. I have heard that there will be forced servers to avoid latency issues at release, but it seems to me that sorting by ping would be a sensible option.

Character creation was pretty standard for the MMORPG world. You can choose the race and class of your character and have a few options for the visual presentation such as hair and facial features etc, but mostly everyone is looking about the same. Unless you are staring at someone from point-blank range you will hardly notice any distinction between characters other than the hair. It would be nice to have more selection here. For example, orcs might have 3 bodies from which to choose, a tall and lean (gangly) one with long arms, standard ugly, and perversely muscled short ones. Then slap the same face on all of them! This would make for better variety than the light green skin, slightly darker green skin, dark green skin options we have now.

Stats are fixed on creation and at least in the stress test were adjusted up automatically when you leveled. I had to laugh when I read a Blizzard rep's explanation for having stats assigned automatically when he said that this was because when players were given the option it led to too many 'cookie-cutter builds!' What? Making automatic stat adjustments is an improvement? How is that leading to a diversity in the population? This may change at retail.

Now rather than go on a binge to try and win the contest by playing one character 24/7, I tried several races and classes up to level 10 to sample the skills and starting regions. I understand that this will make for a somewhat skewered view because many of the classes are just getting started at 10, and everyone can solo to that level so I didn’t have much occasion for group play, but I did get some flavor for each.

Each race has its own starting area and each starting area is amazing in its detail and environment. It is obvious that a lot of thought, attention, detail and skill went into building these starting areas. There were plenty of quests, the NPCs were easy to find (for the most part), the MOBS were appropriate for the level and story, and the quests and stories gave you a general flavor for your racial identity. Since all of my characters stopped at about level 10 they all stayed in their starting areas and only ventured out to get a peek at the outside world. I hope Bliz put as much thought into the 10-60 level areas as they did in the 0-10, but I have to defer to someone else's judgment in that area. But the 1-10 levels were very good.

The interface was clean and reasonably intuitive, but the ability to customize the interface is one of my areas of concern. As it stands, Blizzard has encouraged 3rd party interface customization to the point of helping with the programming language. Bots? Go ahead! Its beta and anything goes. Blizzard has warned, however, that at retail many of the macros/bots/customizations will not be allowed. Blizzard may be smoking out hack methods by encouraging it in the Beta so that they can see where they are exposed, or maybe they couldn't afford to hire someone to make a better interface and this is their way of out-sourcing that aspect of the program, but ask any b-net player about Blizzard's resolve and/or ability to maintain a cheat-free environment, and one must be concerned. Moreover, just mention how you think that any particular interface gives someone too much advantage, and it's 'flame-on' from those players that have that add-on. Once they have it, it is hard to go without it. My own opinion is that if it is that important or that good, put it in the retail box. Everyone has it, or everyone doesn't.

My personal pet peeve with the game is the ability to 'inspect' the equipment of everyone nearby. With the right click of a button, I can look at anyone's equipment regardless of level. Why should anyone be able to see the stats of all of someone else's equipment? It is one thing to see a graphic of the equipment, and quite another to see that it is +3 to agility, required level 10 unless you are trying to buy it or trade for it. Maybe make the ability to see equipment a skill you can learn. Or give the player a toggle to refuse to allow inspection of equipment. Anything other than a general publication of your stats and equipment.

What makes it worse is that the aforementioned interface modifications (in this case COSMOS) will, when you get inspected, send your character's information, level, AC, HPs, and all equipped items to a 3rd party server for everyone on the planet to look at. Talk about too much information! And cookie cutter builds? Want to make a level 50 human pally? Go to the website and look at the 30 level 50 Human pallys and see the equipment and then make yourself into a clone. (The website is www.thottbot.com). While not necessarily a show-stopper, this has the potential to really remove some of the mystery from the game. COSMOS users love having that information and they take the position that, if you don't want to know, don't look. Well, its not so much that I don't want to know what you are wearing as it is that I don't want you to know my level, HPs, AC, and equipment.

Along those same lines, showing levels seems a bit unfair, too, especially on PVP servers. I would see chat messages like 'level 12 undead mage just West of town' and then the PVP battle would begin. Why should Alliance or Horde know the level of their opponents just by hovering their cursor over them? I might go along with conning them either green, yellow or red (for example 8 levels or more below, within 8 levels, or more than 8 levels higher) but exact level and equipment information is just too much to make for good pvp. Might as well tell you that 'You may engage this person in PVP and your chances of winning are 85%. Do you want to proceed?'

PVP currently has no penalty for losing (other than having to run back to your body) and no reward for winning. Since this may be the end-game for some, I hope the DEVS are considering something. Maybe a big ugly tattoo on your head when you lose to someone of equal or lower level that you pay to have removed. Something!

All-in-all, however, Blizzard has a solid game. Low lag and latency, good graphics, reasonable leveling, skill sets (fishing, blacksmithing, etc) that can be raised in addition to character level, decent drops, and what is shaping up as a robust economy. Is there anything new here? Not really. Blizzard seems to have taken the approach of borrowing aspects of other games that work and implementing them in WOW, and eliminating troubling aspects of other games.

World of Warcraft has a great beginning. Having played a week I am ready for more. I am only hoping that Blizzard, having announced that they will have a public beta, will manage to get the remainder of the content in, as well as character talents and skills, balance the classes, have the Beta and still release this year. But I am cautious about expecting the release because of their history of fleshing things out to perfection, as well as how they are going to deal with 3rd party modifications.

I hope the rest of the story is as good as the first chapter.





Stress Test Review
by Nintendo Guru 	September 15, 6:27 pm
1208 Views
Advertisement

Image 1Nintendo Guru reporting in. I began writing this just minutes after the end of the World of Warcraft stress test. We had a gigantic party in Stormwind in the last half hour of the test. Alcohol was flowing, blizzards were crashing, fireworks were flying, clothes were being shed, and there was much dancing and dueling in the street. What a blast!

I can now give my impressions of the game. Since this is my first MMORPG, I and many other people had to get used to the whole concept of aggro, so there was a learning curve, but it's manageable if you learn to play conservatively instead of throwing everything you have at one monster and then having an add come from behind and kill you.

The Classes!

I played with every race and every class just to get an overall idea of the game. I never got any character past level 12, but I did have nine characters total. The races have their subtle differences but for me it came down to aesthetics ... namely who's a better dancer! ;)

Warrior: The primary damage dealer, tanker, and aggro handler. I found him quite boring to tell the truth. I don't want to be the one who handles the aggro and tanks the monsters. I want to deal damage and kill stuff! A must have in your party, as long as I'm not playing him.

Rogue: Now this is my type of guy. The rogue couldn't care less about aggro. He's focused on one thing: Getting monsters dead as quickly as possible. It's possible to play him two ways. You can use heavy hitting moves that sap a lot of energy but end a fight very quickly (great for a party), or you can play like the Assassin from Diablo 2 - doing charge and release patterns with combo point builders and finishing moves (great for soloing). Personally I love to backstab things. In fact it would be fun to have two rogues grouping together, attacking monsters in a pincer formation. One of them constantly backstabs the enemy, and then when he gets aggro, the other one backstabs the enemy. I'm definitely making one of these guys when WoW goes retail.

Paladin: Party is this guy's middle name. Many of his skills are tuned to assisting teammates, so he should be played as such. He's also a very solid melee dealer and tanker, making him a great solo class as well.

Mage: The ultimate burninator! Since he can make his own food and water, a mage can stay in the field indefinitely. He can deal massive amounts of damage over long periods of time, but if you do it constantly, you're going to draw mad aggro and get squished for lack of defense. A great character to solo with, just be careful in parties.

Warlock: Probably the hardest character to play. Like the mage, he's fragile yet powerful, but to make it more of a challenge, he's limited in his ability to restore himself. Having a pet is a must. More likely to be better in a party than solo.

Hunter: I only played this guy to level 7, so I didn't get to experience his pets, but I can say this about him. He excels at ranged attacks, but sucks at melee range. This groups him with the warlock and mage as a nuking class - a character who stands back and deals long-distance damage. A nice addition to a team.

Image 2Druid: Lots of people dislike the druid, but I think he's one of the most balanced characters there is. He's a jack of all trades, but a master of none. He can heal like a priest, tank like a warrior, sneak like a rogue, and nuke like a mage, however every one of those classes can do a better job than he can. The druid's only true claim to fame is the uber buff: Mark of the Wild. Still, this doesn't make the druid useless, as his versatility makes him able to fill any spot in a party's needs at a moment's notice. He's also a decent solo player.

Shaman: The paladin of the Horde. This guy is good with melee, good with nuke spellcasting and healing, and his totems provide ample team support. However he can only wear leather, which gives the paladin an advantage in defense. A good soloer and good party member.

Image 3Priest: Saving the best for last. This is my favorite class. Why? At first I was skeptical, thinking the priest is only good as a healer and can't deal the damage. Turns out he CAN deal the damage with some pretty powerful nuke spells, making him a viable soloer. Combine that with the best healing spells in the game and you get a must-have party player. Healing an entire party takes some micromanagement skills, including not overdoing it such that you end up drawing aggro. But if you can do it well, your group can take on monsters a few levels higher than you without much difficulty. About an hour before the stress test ended, my party of three level 10's was taking on level 15 monsters. This is another must-have character for me come retail.

Image 4The Graphics!

Absolutely gorgeous. You have to play with every race just to see the variety in the landscapes. Even then, you get more eyecandy when you go exploring. Griffon rides are a treat.

The Quests!

The meat of the game is questing, since you get lots of money and most of your experience this way. This is where I have some gripes. Too many quests involve killing a certain number of a monster or collecting a body part of said monster. Sure it gives you XP, but it gets repetitive and boring quickly.

What's worse than that, though, is that when you're not on a quest, you're wasting your time. If you kill 10 of a monster and then wander into town and talk to yonder guard, he'll tell you to kill 10 more, and your previous effort meant nothing but some copper pieces and paltry experience. Image 5Case in point. I had to kill some troll whelps in a cave in Coldridge Valley. I wiped out the head troll while I was at it. When I walked triumphantly back into town, NOW he tells me that the head troll has a precious item that he needed. So yep, I had to go back in and kill all the whelps and the troll boss all over again just to get the quest item from him. It would be nice if quest items popped up outside the quest but you wouldn't know it was a quest item if you didn't have the quest. That way you can simply sell the item for cash, or walk up to yonder guard, get the quest, and say 'What? You want 10 Whipplemire Hawk Earlobes? I've already got 20 of em in my bag!'

Also, none of your quests have any visible impact upon the game. As a taruen druid I had to wipe out a venture company invading the land, with their headquarters in a mine. After routing the entire company and their leader in the mine, you would think that after you complete the quest, you can walk away victoriously and the land would be free of the company. Nope, they just respawn and wreak more havoc. I realize that it would be impossible to customize the game for each individual player depending on what they have or have not done and still keep it a MMORPG. But you can always wish for a better answer.

Overall!

I've been waiting for three years to get a hands-on glimpse of this game, and after a week and a half of play, I'm satisfied. It's still buggy in the state I saw it in, but you can see the sheer amount of content that is there and all you have to do is go out and get it. And get it I will.

- NG




From my Blade With Love
by Malgog 	September 15, 8:52 am
1177 Views
Advertisement

It was just another day of cleaning up after another hurricane. Living in central Florida this year has turned into a nightmare. I had downloaded World of Warcraft before our power went out and signed up for stress test. However was anything but hopeful that I would get in. When I signed up at Fileplanet, they said they were all out of keys but would be acquiring more and would be sending them as soon as possible. I didn't think much of it because even if they did get more, they had at least five times the number of people trying to get in.

After finally getting my power back I swiftly checked my email. And I nearly shed a tear as I read a single title between all of the spam mail, 'World of Warcraft Stress Test - Pub Beta Key.' I couldn't believe it. I was already 3 days behind everyone so I knew there would be no way to catch up to them. However I did fairly decently.

After getting my key I installed and started up WoW. Fairly basic login screen. Frankly couldn't care less if it was a blank screen with somewhere to put my username and password. I first made a Gnome warlock. Then a paladin. Then a priest. Then finally my pride and joy. My undead rogue.

When I first entered as a level 1, I was immediately able to take a quest. I was reluctant to play a Horde race because I always favored alliance. Not anymore. I spent roughly 8 to 10 hours leveling and having a blast doing quest after quest. The game ran like it was on a top of the line machine, and the graphics were state of the art. It's not just realistic graphics that make a game look good. Its the way they are made. World of Warcraft is a perfect example of combining traditional graphics with modern technology. They really stunned me. Many say they look like a cartoon, I say it looks fantasy, which is the entire reason I play a game.

I found it amazingly easy to acquire quests in the undead area. Much easier then I did in alliance. The quest system is great. The major problem I had with current MMO's is the level grind off killing creatures constantly. In WoW, the majority of your experience comes from questing. This gives you something to do almost non stop. I ALWAYS had a quest in my book. Also, when you finish all the quests in one area, you are sent to another area. Your next leveling home. This took me from Brill to Silverpine at level 10. In world of warcraft, at lower levels, I found it very easy to kill creatures 2-3 levels higher then myself. I enjoyed this immensely. However as I began to increase in level, it became more apparent that killing a creature 2 levels above me would prove a lot more difficult.

Silverpine became my permanent home for almost the entire duration of my stress test. I had done all of the soloable quests in silverpine, but had several Elite quests to do (elite basically means you need at least 1 full group to do them). Since I could not find a group to do those quests, and being only 18 at the time, I decided to head over to orc land. Being unfamiliar with this place I thought it would be difficult to find my way around. But again, found it very easy to to get around.

After arriving there I visited my trainer in the main city. Much to my surprise he had a quest for me, that required me to pick a lock. Up until now, I never had to use this ability. I just loved how my undead rogue walked. Haunched over like he was sneaking around. As I walked onto the ship where my quest would take place, I found the chest and picked it. Which spawned a huge parrot. I fed him a mutated cracker and began whacking away it him. The cracker turned him from an unknown level mob(??) to a level 18. I quickly dispatched of him then headed to the crossroads in the barrens (equivalent to silverpine). I decided to skip the low level hunting grounds as the experience reward there would be to small to prove any usefulness.

I arrived at crossroads, and didn't even have to look around. NPC's everywhere had what I love to see the most. A giant orange exclamation point over their head. I quickly picked up roughly 8 quests and headed out. Most were gray, some green, and a few yellow. I began getting my fill of this place. Being several days behind, it was difficult to find groups to do the elite quests with so I spent most of my time soloing.

At level 20, I head back to my trainer to get my quest to use poisons and get my new skills. By now, my quickbar was overflowing. Fighting creatures has become mind freezing, unable to decide what finishing combo moves to use. Should I use expose armor so I hit him harder for the duration? Should I use rupture to add another DoT? Should I use eviscerate and hope I critical for a buttload of damage? And even during combat, you have such a variety of skills, I don't know what tactic to use half the time. Usually I don't have to worry much, because rogues unleash such a large load of damage the creature is usually dead before I have time to make a decision.

By now, I find out my level 20 quest to use my poisons is an Elite quest. Damnit! Now I'm never going to get to use poisons. The person I had talked to said that she had to pay people to actually come out and help her. What a bummer. I figured I might as well, I was at about a gold since I had just spent a lot on training. So I offered 25s in the general chat to anyone who came and helped me.

Of course, noone replied. Until after asking a few times, I get 2 whispers. 1 from a level 21 rogue and one from a level 37 rogue saying they need the same quest. Which was perfect, the level 37 could wipe through these guys in a second (mobs were from 22-26 and the main guy was a 26+). But before they could do this quest they had to finish the previous one (pick the lock, fight the parrot), which I spent about 20 minutes explaining to both of them how to do it.

After a bit of explaining, I got both of them through it. Finally, they both come to do the quest. When in big yellow letters in the chat we receive 'Server Maintenance: Servers coming down in 5 minutes.' Bah! After all that. But we all agreed to do this quest when the servers come back up. After about 45 minutes of trolling the Blizzard forums the servers return. I log on and we are all there. First thing to do is steal the key from the guy on the bottom floor. Unfortunately he was level 25 and near the wall of the tower. So getting behind him was Impossible. This required to have the higher level take him away so we could get into position. After all 3 of us stole the key we headed upstairs, killing everything on the way, then finally killing the boss guy.

After finishing this quest, I log off and go to sleep. I wake up early the next morning, my day off and the last day of stress testing, Sunday. I quickly log on my guy and finish up my solo quests, which get me to level 22. I buy all my new armor and weapons, stock up on supplies, and head out to PvP. Being on a non PvP server, it was difficult to initiate fights. Especially solo. After taking the zeppelin from the Orc main city to the Alliance area, I quickly was confronted with a dilemma. I had traveled here before at level 12 for the fun of it and encountered creatures of ?? level. So basically I suicided all the way out, until I kept dying to guards near cities even while stealthed. Now these creatures had there present level. Anywhere from 30 to 36. Even ran into a few level 34-36 humans on my way through to alliance land. To difficult to try and kill so I slid by them.

Putting my stealth to the test I began sneaking by all of these creatures. Eventually being killed. But even being killed, I was able to resurrect and make my way to Alliance territory. Albeit slowly. It took me roughly 30 minutes to make it to Goldshire where I spot a yellow alliance member. The guards here were level 25 so I figured he was standing far enough away for me to kill him without getting aggression. Unknown to me, every town on the non PvP server has a stash of level 75 guards that spawn the moment you enter an enemy town. The moment I attack him with Ambush, I'm immediately killed. So now I have to ress and die several times before I can ress far enough away from town not to get aggro.

As I am resting, I watch a level 24 red paladin running around about 40-50 yards away from me. No matter, I'm stealthed and he can't see me. Not. This guy makes a beeline for me and nails me. Eventually killing me from 1/2 health. So I come back and resurrect from behind a tree so he could not see me. And stealth. As I begin to walk away, I look behind me and yet again see this guy, 2 levels higher then me now followed by a 20 priest come straight at me. This time, I sap him, mezzing him for 25 seconds and go straight at the priest. I could see the horror on her face as I start puncturing her relentlessly. Catching her so off guard the only thing she could do was throw up her absorb shield and run. No use, only a few blows absorbed. She begins to cast her heal when I kick her, which interrupts any spells being casted and makes them unable to cast for 6 seconds. Bracing for the end, se runs as close as she can to Goldshire, hoping to aggro the guards. But to no avail as her lifeless body falls to the floor. Finally as I finish her off the paladin comes for me. Coming out my battle with the priest had actually regained some health, but not much. Whereas this level 24 paladin was full on health. Fortunately for me, I think his invincibility spell was still cooling down. I cast Evasion and we begin swinging at each other. Dodge, Dodge, Dodge, Miss, Dodge, Hit was this messages sent to this guy. You cannot defeat the undead. We are forever. After pummeling this paladin my evasion wears off and I become vulnerable. I drink my potion and heal back to 90% health. Unknown to this paladin, rogues can interrupt spell casting. If I didn't know better, he had a gleam in his eye, knowing he could heal himself. So he waited, and waited. His arrogance became his downfall. Down to 20% health he begins to cast his Heal, and I swiftly follow up with a kick. Interrupting his spell, and driving him into a panic. Not knowing what to do, he begins to run. No use, you may have a lead on me, but not anymore. I quickly cast Sprint and catch up. For my final shot, a backstab. As I watch him fall to the ground, and me reveling in his bloody body, in a victory.

With 30% health left, I move away so he cannot find me when he comes back. Just as I sit down, I begin to see a large black stampede come at me. What could it be? A raid from the Horde. Unknown to them my amazing victory just soon before. They would be proud.





De-Stressing: Stress Free Test Part 4
by GrnArmadillo 	September 14, 10:08 pm
877 Views
Advertisement

Like all heroes, the Tauren Druid Verial of Thunder Bluff continues his adventures somewhere in the lands of imagination and departed Blizzard characters. But with the stress test ending, no ordinary quest would suffice for my last adventure with this old friend. No, we were off on one last quest to see the world with the help of a man whose services we had long shunned….

Verial, the Un-Dead and the Spirit Healer: Since Verial was not going to gain another level, we suddenly had an unlimited account with the Spirit Healer. The healer asks for 5% of the total exp between levels for his resurrection services. At level 21, that amounted to 1,260 exp, slightly larger than a typical quest reward and approximately the amount gained for killing 10 near-even level mobs. For a character whose career wasn’t about to end, this may or may not be a larger penalty than the trek to recover the corpse. Ghosts can’t see most players or mobs until they get within a certain radius of their body. They then have a 30 yard radius from their body in which they can resurrect. However, for every time I successfully found a place to strategically resurrect, heal/buff, and battle my way out, there many more where the very monsters that killed me were camped around the body, requiring me to make multiple corpse runs moving closer to safety each time. (Note to Druid players: You’d be surprised how far you can get by taking off the minute you res, casting regen on the run, and then hitting bear form to max tanking ability. Ditto if you can find a body of water to jump into, as the seal can outrun most melee mobs.)

Yards of the Dead: The other quirk to the death system as it now stands is graveyard placement. While one hears of bugs spawning you to graveyards on the wrong continent, most times you pop up in the designated graveyard for your zone, even if you had barely ever set foot in that zone before your death. This means that you can, in principle, pay the penalty to be transported clear across a zone that’s too high of a level for you to be in to begin with. Not a bad deal, if a somewhat puzzling design situation. Also note that, especially in the newbie zones, graveyards may be physically located in enemy towns. I learned this the hard way, as I was mobbed by town guards where I stood within instants of paying the healer to res. At least that was a short corpse run. Personally, I think the game would have been better off with its old system of “binding” players to a specific graveyard they’ve previously visited. If a player wants to burn 15 minutes worth of exp to “teleport” themselves and save 10 minutes of running, I say let them, cause grinding to regain the experience may be a more entertaining use of the time than non-interactive running to get there followed by trying to run back to safety.

Calling out the Guards: Speaking of town guards, I’m not sure that anyone is thrilled with them at the moment. Guards are usually a good 20-30 levels more powerful than the zone they’re in, meaning that they have an insanely high aggro radius against both passing players who wanted no part of disturbing them and passing monsters. I have had the Tarren Mills guards “rescue” me from battles that I didn’t really need the help in, just cause the mobs had the poor fortune of spawning too close to town. The former is also a big issue because the silver arrow on the minimap pointing that there’s a city nearby does NOT tell you the faction of that city. I once made a break for the safety of town only to first discover that it wasn’t MY town when I was slaughtered by a bunch of guards before I could even make out any townsfolk to tell if they were mine or not. While I think it’s a big problem if players on the PvE server take and hold a town, preventing passing players from actually playing the game in that region, for any extended period of time, I’ll agree that the guard system as it now stands is well overblown.

Commando Seal Runs: As I promised last journal, Verial did indeed scare the heck out of a fisherman in the Elwynn Forest region (human newbie zone) by surfacing from the river in seal form and waving friendlily. The poor guy suddenly stood up and backed away quickly, shouting something in the Alliance Common tongue. Within instants, even though I had not attacked anyone or wandered into the sight of any guards that I saw, I was mobbed under by an army of five Stormwind guards that spawned from thin air. That’s real overkill when one would have more than done me in, but Blizzard has says the instant spawning is a bug that will be fixed soon. I’m also unconvinced that it makes sense for guards to be massively above player levels to begin with. After all, who’s the hero here, the guy running around slaying beasts for the Alliance/Horde or the guy staying at home guarding the gate? Personally, I think the guard system should be almost non-existent on the PVP server, and effective but not massively overkill on the PVE server. Such changes are supposedly in the offing, so keep your eyes peeled for updates.

Experience: Keep an eye on this issue. With the best of the powergamers having hit their mid 30’s and early 40’s during the 10 day stress test, people speculate that a nerf to experience is in the works. Personally, I don’t think experience needs to be changed at all when my leveling pace during the stress test would require 8-9 DAYS of playtime to hit the cap. That assumption presumes that leveling doesn’t start taking longer from 22-60 than it does from 11-21, which isn’t what I hear from the Beta people, and thus is likely to be an underestimate. And it doesn’t take into account crafting, socializing, PVP, endgame content or commando seal runs, much less playing a second character to experience the other faction. All of this means that a casual player can probably expect to play for months before running out of things to do with their first character, even with “rapid” progress.

I say this is good. After all, Blizzard has said they want early levels to be easy in order to encourage people to play other factions/races/classes. Right now, one gets enough experience to level by going from quest to quest without stopping to grind in between. Yes, the quests themselves are generally focused grinds, but they’re reasonably brief and send you to new spawn sites before you can get too bored. Lowering experience gains might make the game longer, but it won’t do anything give the game more difficulty or depth. I’m hoping things stay as they are.

Community: The difference between a single player RPG and a MMORPG is the presence of other players everywhere you turn, and they’re frankly a mixed bag. (Yes, I realize that we might see slightly more maturity amongst paying customers than free stress testers.) Over my 10 days, I played with a lot of players who were very helpful, and both gave and received drive-by buffs/heals. I also had a bunch of party members I presume to be newbies who would make mistakes like wandering too close to additional monsters, not watching my mana bar to tell if I'd be able to heal them before pulling more monsters, etc. Then there were the immature types using offensive language on the public channels, and inconsiderate types like the group members who said “Well, *I* finished the quest, so I’m heading back to town” after I died from aggro I got healing them during an escort mission (which I immediately failed for dying). It’s certainly possible to solo easier quests (mobs below your level or mobs helpfully staying far enough apart to allow you to pull them one at a time) but as the game goes on there are many areas where you simply won’t survive the swarms without at least one other party member if you’re not playing a class with good crowd control. So, you’re not totally dependent on other players to play (some classes at least) but expect to need the help or else spend some downtime healing/regenerating mana if you want to be doing more than the easiest of the quests in any time efficient manner.

Review: Take a top single player game like, say, Diablo II. Add to its seven classes two more, and eight playable races with different starting experiences. Add a tradeskill system that, far from inconveniencing players, uses goods they acquire naturally in the course of their careers. Add approximately 20 zones, each at least half as large as an Act in DII and with far greater density of quests. Add hundreds or even thousands of players online at once, with guilds to facilitate finding someone to work with from the crowd. Add a stream of new and/or yet to be implemented content including PVP arenas and hero classes. Now you have World of Warcraft.

Don’t get me wrong, there is definitely still work to be done. But this game is now better than many games that have already been released, single or multiplayer. I’d advise any prospective player to keep their eyes open for a chance to preview the game in the open beta and form their own opinions. But the bottom line is that, even though I’ve always been skeptical of buying a $50 game that turns into a set of commemorative CD coasters if you stop paying an additional monthly fee, this game has one of the best gameworlds I've ever seen in an RPG. I will definitely be keeping my eyes open for any changes between now and release that might make the game less fun, but I think that in the end WoW will be my first MMORPG.

A final journey: On his last adventure, Verial found that his seal form was very helpful in getting through zones and around unfriendly guards posted on roads at the borders between zones. And then, swimming the rivers of Elwynn forest, he heard tell of something he had never seen in his sunny Thunder Bluffs. A substance called snow, found only in the highest of mountains like those called home by the Dwarves of the Alliance. While the land road to Dun Morogh was dangerous, he figured there would be few guards in the Great Sea. And so Verial dived in and swam north. Sadly, though he traveled all through the night, he was unable to find a place to scale the great mountains. He swam all the way around his destination to the wetlands, where he was still separated from his objective by those accursed peaks.

Image 1But, just when he was about to give up hope, he stumbled upon tunnels carved through the rock itself by the great Dwarven stonecutters. Transforming into a bear to best survive the expected Dwarven onslaught, Verial charged up into the mountains, ascending until finally, at the end of the third stretch of tunnels, he emerged. Verial charged past shocked Dwarven guards who had never expected to see the enemy in their secure homeland. He finally saw the snow.

Satisfied at this last accomplishment, Verial invoked his hearthstone and returned to Thunder Bluff. Tomorrow he might set out on a new great adventure. Or perhaps he might settle down and replace the crazed leathercrafting trainer of his hometown, who believed himself to be in Darnassus and refused to train anyone. But for now, Verial slept.

Thanks to WoW.net for hosting these journals (parts 1, 2, and 3 here), Blizzard for letting me preview this game in its stress testing, and all of you for reading!




Stress Test last day PvP fun
by Narthok 	September 14, 4:58 pm
1128 Views
Advertisement

Last day of the Stress Test:

Since we were not to see another extention of the test, I figured questing or grinding was a waste of the time I had left. Time for some real fun! So I left the Horde outpost of the Crossroads and headed to the docks at Ratchet to catch a boat to Booty Bay.

All sorts of cutthroats and scallywags inhabit Booty Bay. As one of the Alliance leaning ports, I had to be careful unless I wanted to get ganked right off the boat. So, avoiding any guards that may want to bash my skull in, I made my way out of the port and headed into the nearby jungle and deeper into the human lands of Azeroth.

The jungle was as beautiful as it was dangerous. More than once I was seen and pursued by a few tigers and apes. My path took me farther north until I finally reached the Duskwood. Humans struggle to maintain a foothold here, constantly fighting the remainders of the Undead Scourge. Wisely, I decided it would be better to skirt around the village I found. A Dwarf Warrior was heading south when he spotted me on the road and gave pursuit. Since I didn't want to fight so far from any support, I ducked into the forest and blended in with my surroundings making myself nearly invisible. With no small amount of pleasure, I watched the dwarf search for me in vain. I don't know if it was fear of suddenly finding my twin daggers in his back or he just tired of the chase that made him give up, but soon enough I once again found myself alone. Carefully following the road north off to the side, I appeared on the opposite side of the water from Lakeshire, home of young humans just starting their adventuring careers.

While it would have been fun to murder five or six of the Humans waiting around for Griffin rides to far away places, the thought of facing the swarm of enemies that would follow did not appeal to me, so I moved off to the west. There, I found a welcome site! The village of Goldshire was under assault by a small Horde raiding party! I quickly banded together with my new allies and attacked some defenseless farmers, they sounded the alarm and within a few moments a few young humans appeared and foolishly attacked our warrior. I was still stealthed and nearly invisible to their eyes. I crept up behind the combat and plunged my daggers into the back of the nearest fighter, ripping open his back and killing him instantly. An elf mage saw me and tried to cast a spell that had little if any effect on me. Seeing I was unphased, she turned to run. Using the quickness inherent to Rogues, I caught up to her and my daggers found purchase in yet another defenseless back, bringing her down in screams and blood.

Since the alarm was sounded that Goldshire was under attack, it was only a matter of time before more skilled adversaries made their way to the defense of the village, and they showed up in force. Our warriors and healers fought the main group while I circled the outskirts of the battle, killing what casters and ranged fighters I could, running from those I couldn't. It was about that time a Dwarf Rogue almost as skilled as I spotted me and gave chase. Seeing his approaching stealthed form, I withdrew from the fight drawing him away with me so I could deal with this upstart alone, skill against skill without interference.

But as I've always claimed, If I get into a fair fight, I've done something wrong. I laughed to myself as I spotted some of the local fauna ahead. A wild and hungry looking wolf. By itself, it would have posed no danger to the dwarf that was chasing me but as things were I was able to bait the dwarf into moving too close to it so that it turned and charged him. It was then I chose the moment of my attack. Wheeling around a tree and circling back to my quarry. With the wolf nipping at his heels and my daggers at his throat, he didn't stand a chance. A stun with the pommels of my blades and sinister strikes, I eviserated him. Covered in Dwarven blood, I then had to dispatch the wolf that was until then my ally. The battle won, I headed back to the farm to help my group.

Many foes fell that day and I gave out far worse than I received. I have a nice necklace full of Human, Dwarf and Elf ears to display as a trophy. Fear the might of the Horde!!!





The 3-day Summary
by groovepapa 	September 14, 12:57 am
695 Views
Advertisement

The story begins on Friday morning at about 6:30am when I hobbled in front of my computer to check my email and drink my cold coffee. Among the multitude of tempting offers to '1ncrease my manhood' and 'make her beg 4 more' I see a comparatively mundane 'Welcome to the World of Warcraft Stress Test Beta'. Skeptically, I open the message and cautiously click the link contained within, which presents me with an official-looking Blizzard site at the start of a signup process. I click thru a couple screens and notice the 4th is titled 'Payment Information' and my heart sinks a little, thinking that my too-good-to-be-true is just that. But thankfully, a 'SAMPLE' watermark overlays the credit card screens and I am just 2 clicks away from downloading the really-real WoW beta. When the BitTorrent installer gets going, it says I have roughly 10 hours to wait. Dang, just when I was about to call in sick to work...

After work, I come home, kiss the wife good-bye for the weekend and retreat to my study. After a smooth but long installation, I'm creating my first character - a human paladin named STRlDER. Character creation is both detailed and concise...giving you plenty of customization options but spanning only one screen. Things are feeling like a Blizzard game already.

When entering the world - into Northshire Abbey, I'm greeted first and foremost with a very appropriate question-bubble at the bottom which, upon clicking, explains the easy controls and navigation, and tells me how to interact with people. So I mosey on over to the first chap with a cheery magic ! bouncing on his head and he gives me the low-down on some nasty Kobold Vermin in the area that need 'sorting.'

Starting flat broke, I decide to head just outside to the north and start the beatings. Before I engage the squat little R.O.U.S.-man that only a mother could love, I check out the 2 pre-assigned hotkeys for 2 and 3 on my keyboard. Holy Strike is one, and Holy Light is another. I feel so righteous. But, thinking my mana should be saved for surprises, I conservatively just plain ol' right-click on my victim. When I'm close enough, I teach him what it is to taste Crude Wooden Mallet repeatedly.

Easily and quickly enough, his body is laying on the ground, and mine is pillaging it. A measly 2 copper...but I'm starting to get the hang of movement and navigation. On the next future-corpse, I go all-out and light him up with Holy Strike first - which causes my character to whip around in a pretty slick animation that stops on the left jaw of Kobold Vermin number 2. This is getting really satisfying.

After pummeling that kobold, and the rest of his immediate family, I report back to the man in the Abbey who pats me on the back, drops some change in my hand, and tells me to do more of the same. This time venturing into the mine in the area to take on the larger imbred cousins of my existing trophies. And in this way, thru this cycle, my life is surrendered to the amazing game that is World of Warcraft.

Rather than re-count all of individual keystrokes, as you feared I would, I'd like to give a detailed account of the first impressions you get from the game.

As you've gathered, the interface to the game is incredibly intuitive. If you've played any game with the W-A-S-D holy-grail movement keys, you're already there. Like Diablo II, all of the pertinent sub-displays are available with one keystroke, and, better than Diablo II, you have a large collection of skills/spells to pick from without having to move your hands around.

The artistic style of the game is amazingly rich. So much so that even if you are travelling alone on a road with no other players in sight, it still doesn't feel empty, like many other MMORGs would. Blizzard made the right move in going opposite of trying to make the game close to reality. That's Weta's job, and it's great there...but until we can get that true quality in an interactive game, the style makes more sense.

The size of the world is immense. I spent about 4 or 5 hours exploring the lands around Elwynn Forest and actually only un-covered about 3/4 of it. And that area is maybe one fiftieth of the world. I would guess each of those 50 areas of the world would occupy you for at least 15 hours of gameplay with the built-in content.

I can't rightly say much about the different classes, because I made only a Paladin, up to level 9; a rogue, up to level 5; and a mage up to level 11. My wife made a warlock up to level 7, also. So my experiences were limited to very early-game, low-level content.

But, I think the spell-casters are a little over-powered...as with most other RPG's, the mage especially. You never really run low on mana, even when you use your top spells, and drinking liquids replenishes it quickly. In addition, the mage doesn't seem to suffer from much fewer hit-points than the other classes, and being struck while casting only causes a very small delay in your spell being cast. And while the mage spells do direct damage of 35-45 + some residual effects, most other characters at my level were doing 20-25 damage on a good hit.

Grouping is very beneficial, if rare at times. It was sometimes hard to find people willing to group...most were power-levelers with one-track minds. But getting a good combination of fighters and casters made groups very rewarding. If you're a clingy person who wants to feel wanted, play as a priest! Everyone loves priests. Some quests will be nearly impossible on solo.

Speaking of questing...it is what really seperates WoW from the other MMORG's I have played. The quests are well-planned and straightforward for new players, but I can see how experienced players with new characters will be able to do multiple early-game quests at once to get rapid experience gains early on and get up to the advanced content they're used to. Anyway, the range of quests will have you working your way into some advanced combat techniques, some grouping interaction, and lots of new world areas that you might otherwise shy away from. Don't avoid the quests...they are very rewarding and very fun, especially with a group.

The cool things I want to mention before I head to bed and dream of the day WoW is released, or I make it into the closed beta:

1. The world is rich. It has a certain feeling to it that lacks in any other game out there now.
2. The gameplay is simple and fun. Easy-to-learn, tough-to-master, as they say.
3. Even the limited content I saw seemed important. You're not out killing bunnies until you can wield that all-powerful skinning knife. (Though you can if you want to!)

I didn't even get to look at instanced areas, or guilds, or do any crafting! I was around Kharanos one time when some Horde players attacked, but were pretty quickly slaughtered by a huge number of Alliance folks. All-in-all, my WoWoW (Weekend of World of Warcraft) was some of the best gaming I've ever done, and I can't wait to see it all come together before Christmas! (I hope)





My Stress Test Fun
by barbarian_bob 	September 14, 5:17 am
906 Views
Advertisement

This will be my first offical journal so please offer compliments, complaints etc. Here's the deal. I signed up for the Stress Test Beta when I first relized it was out. After I told file planet my e-mail address and whatnot, I was greeted by the destructive sign that told me they were out of beta slots and they would get to me later when they had more. You can imagine how disappointed I was at the time, I mean c'mon, I've been waiting to play World of Warcraft and I finally get the chance to and what do they do?! They blow my dreams out of the water. Well, later when I went to shool on the first day, my friend told me that he got into Stress Beta. I told him my sad story and he calmly told me to check my e-mail. When I got home I did just that. Low and behold there was the link to d/l it! I went to the link right away and started to d/l (BTW it told me it would take 1 day 14 hours and 23 min(yes I did memerize it)). Well, imagine my disappointment when I come home from school and it says I was disconnected. Moving on to not bore you to death, it wouldn'y let me d/l it anymore. Blah bidy blah I was pissed, blah blah, they said they were going to close it on Wednesday you know the drill. Well, anyway, one of my friends could d/l much faster than me (8 hours) on his DSL connection and didn't have a keycode. Guess where I come into this.

Anyway I gave him the keycode and over the weekend I went over to his house to play some WoW. There, got that all out of the way, just had to explain so you'd understand my plight, now for the story...

Not wanting to play the classes I was going to play in Open (Human Warlock and Orc Shaman) I decided to make a Human Palaldin by the name of Agor. The character modling could use a little work though. You're basically given a bunch of faces to choose from and you're off to go. I think that they should implement a character creation thing like SWG did (Star Wars Galaxy for you thickheaded barbarians). Anyway, back to Agor. My paladin started out in Northshire like every other human did. At first, all I could do was stare at the world which was Warcraft. I was dumbfounded by the excellant 3D artwork.

Once I finally came back to my senses, I went to the nearest ! guy. My first offical quest was to go talk to someone in the Abbey. Easy enough. I could tell who I had to talk to because he had a yellow ? above his head. I ran up to him and right clicked. To my surprise, I was give around 100 xp for such a simple task, w00t! Next was to kill X kolbolds. The fightning system is great, you can't just right click and walk away, you have to use your skills. Well, I easily dispatched of the kolbolds and reported back to the footman.

Later, when I'm not so tired and being yelled at to go to bed, I'll right a more detailed journal about Agor's adventures (including one that involes a shovel). Oh and sorry for no pics of Northshire and whatnot but all my screenshots are on my friends comp.


Barbarian_bob, 1st time journal writer.



Part 2: The Adventures of Ronamor
by zorkwiz 	September 14, 1:11 am
807 Views
Advertisement

I don't know what it is about the Tauren, maybe it's partly their appearance that I was attracted to, but I think mostly it was the Native American theme and locale that got me hooked, and the fact that they seem to be underplayed in comparison to the others I'd tried. Whatever it was, I fell in love with my warrior right away. Another thing that helped was that I got 3 bags within the first 5 minutes of playing, which I learned later on was obviously just dumb luck. However, having all that extra space somehow made me want to press on in order to fill it, and so I did.

The Tauren starting area is a small encampment in a plain surrounded by mountains. Graphically it is very vibrant, with greens and browns dominating the scenery, but splashes of color in the Tauren architecture and totems. It is a must frieldier setting than either of the others i'd seen. I liked the freedom and visibility of the open land, though it made my character seem a bit slow, a point that kept coming up in my mind as I played through the week. I wish that runspeed overall was maybe 20-25% faster for all races, but that certainly isn't something that'll change until level 40, which is somewhat disappointing.

As for quests, they were not too much different overall that what I saw from the other races. Plenty of kill X of Y, or collect X of y, but a few that I eventually got to that were more interesting were quests to cleanse waterwells, which consisted of clearing out monsters around part of the zone and then right clicking on an item in your inventory while close to the well to 'cleanse it'. These were a little more challenging than your typical kill/collection quest, but they were generally shorter as well, which I liked.

Another of the early quests called for you to clear out quillboars from a gorge of theirs, and then to find and kill their leader. The leader was found in a large tent with a couple of guards outside and one inside that came with him. Luckily I had leveled a little extra or I would have been overwhelmed. The quest was fun though, and definitely challenging, at least for a solo player. Right near the leader's tent I could see some quillboar shaman walking near a cave. I thought I might as well check out the cave while I was there, so I made my way up to it, killing shaman along the way, who were lower level and weaker than many of the other quillboar. When I got to the mouth of the cave, however, a named boar named Squealer and his shaman friend rushed out at me. This was another encounter that I just barely escaped with the kill, and my life. As a reward, however, I got a nice belt (at the time) called 'Squealer's Belt', and inside was a map that started an optional quest in your home camp. Very nice touch, and something that I never found anything like again in all my later travels. This type of optional quest that rewards exploration is what the game needs, instead of more collection and kill X quests.

One experience that cannot be missed is the first encounter with the Kodo. Once you've left your starting camp and gotten to the village of Bloodhoof, your quests take you around the Mulgore region. Periodically in certain areas of the land, these giant beasts will stomp through, shaking the ground and scaring the hell out of you until you realize that they are passive creatures. Still though, it's a very cool touch for an otherwise pretty wide open and monotonous zone. The Kodo are level 11-12 for the adults, usually come in small packs, and you probably run into them around level 6 or so, so it's definitly frightening.

After some more basic quests, I got the quests to venture *cough* into the Venture Co.'s mine and bring them a generous helping of pain. Unfortunately, I was trying to do this solo around level 10 and the pain was brought to me instead. I later teamed up with a level 9 Shaman, and we were able to go through almost the whole area, but we never found the leader of the place. It wasn't until I was level 13 and could easily handle the place solo that I went in and found him not far from the entrance up to the right.. maybe he's a radom spawn but it was annoying after all the work we'd done before. The place was fairly cool looking but there was not enough reward or enough quests assosiated with the mine to warrant its huge size and the amount of time it takes to fully explore it. I was bored of killing the same creatures after about 15 minutes, and it took my partner, Hoof, and me about an hour just to get into the depts of the place let alone get out, which we eventually botched anyhow and got ourselves killed.

The next step in a Tauren's life is to venture up the lifts to the beautiful mesas of ThuderBluff. The place is incredible looking, with amazing vista's, giant totems that really add to the feeling of majesty as you wander around the top of the world. The city itself, however, is overwhelming at first. Finding your way around and remembering at which mesa your class trainer is, where the tradeskill trainers are, where anything is basically is nearly impossible without extensive time spent getting around. I think each major city should have a quest where you get paid to show an NPC around the city, so that you get to learn about the different areas along the way and see how the areas connect together. I literally spent an hour when I first arrived just exploring, and afterwards I'd forgotten where almost all of the places I'd been to were. The guards in the town can mark your map with the locations of trainers or the bank if you need, which helps alot, but it still doesn't make you feel any less lost, at least not for a while. After having done most of the quests in Thunderbluff and the surrounding area, it was finally time to follow my destiny to the Barrens, about which I had read so much over the past months.

Before I could make the trek, however, on my way out of Mulgore, I was surprised to see a bright blue transparent wolf named Ghost Bite near the road to Bloodhoof. Maybe it only spawns at certain times of the day, but I was fortunate enough to take him down. An NPC in Bloodhoof rewarded me with a choice of some pretty nice weapons for the wolf's pelt, which happened to double as a cloak, and I chose a new hammer to crush skulls with. With that cool little random quest done, I was off to the Barrens again.

The Barrens are HUGE. I kept being impressed by the scope of the world, and that I'd seen so little of the landmass shown in map sections of fansites such as this one. You have to realize that each race pretty much gets their own starting continent that most players will not see unless they make a character of that race, but there is still plenty of otherland for all characters to see. I think I had about 24 hours worth of playtime on this character before I headed to the Barrens, which isn't that much time for an MMO certainly, but seemed like a good stretch for just the starting land of one race.

I was quickly overwhelmed by quests once I reached the crossroads. There are tons of NPCs, tons of quests, and tons of new monsters to see and kill. At first it was pretty fun, but I felt like the variety of quests got even less interesting in the Barrens, as did the scenery, with kill quest after kill quest, after killquest it seemed. There were a few standouts, such as exploring the oases, and then planting seeds underwater in a different oasis area. There was also a cool warrior quest that, though it was another kill quest, led me all the way into the Orc/Troll starting continent (Durotar) that I disliked as a Troll, but to a new area in it with giant lightning lizards to kill, which at least was more fun than plainstriders, zebras and lions all over again.

After a while I had so many quests yet to do, and they were getting progressively harder to do solo (around level 15 things seemed to get alot tougher for me) that I decided just to run through the lands and explore. I went north and climbed a mountaintop full of pissed off acolytes, where the sun dimmed and the sky turned red and ominous as i ascended. I then ran down the other side of the mountain, and north still into Ashenvale, where I was quickly dispatched by a level ?? Spider, which means I guess I had no business being there. I then went back across the Southfury River and through more of Durotar and the Troll/Orc lands. On my way west across the zone I ran into some level 8-9ish quillboars with their leader, a leve 11+ (elite). This was the first elite I'd seen, and being level 14 or 15, I figured I could take him down.... I was dead wrong. Elites have far more HP, and this guy didn't seem to miss me a single time and he hit HARD so I was forced to run and ended up dying again.. Oh well, lesson learned. I then found my way south to Tiragarde Keep, a cool looking run-down castle that's home to low level bandints and pirates. I didn't have the key to their castle's chest however, so I left and continued south. I ended up back in the Den, the Troll/Orc starting area, and I ran through some micro dungeon that I had never even gotten to as a Troll. Bored of that, I ran back up north through some harpy infested cavers and canyons, slaughtering them at will, and them I can to Orgrimmar. Dear god.. I thought Thunder Bluff was big. I knew I had no hope of figuring this city out, so I just ran to the Highest point, where I assumed correctly I'd find the Gryphon Master. I did see a snake vendor on my way through though, selling snake pets for 50 silver. I didn't quite have enough cash or I'd probably have gotten one, seeing as the stress test was almost over by this point.

Speaking of gryphon masters, the gryphon rides in this game are a sight to behold. I only ever was able to get to a few routes through my travels, but they were very cool, and let you see some of the high level zones that very few people got to see during the stress test. (I did see a level 45 mage, which was the highest that I knew of). The flights are really fun to watch the first few times, and the route back from one place to another is always a slightly different path than te flight there, so there is even more to see on the return trip.

Although I covered my adventures pretty fully, I didn't actually talk much about the character itself. I really like the warrior, though I don't feel there is quite enough variety of skills yet. Each battle starts out with a charge into your target, which when grouped can be timed with another characters long range pull to run up and stun the beast before it reaches the group. This is realy fun and I love charge. The other skills that I would use were very few. Usually I'd charge, imediately throw on the Damage over time attack (the name escapes me), and then use my Heroic Strike (double damage attack) when I would have the rage required for it. I'd usually go for an easier monster first, so that I coulde build up extra rage and then use my battle shout (added attack power for 2 minutes) toward the end which would last long enough to also get me through a tougher fight after that. There is also an attack debuff shout that you get at level 12 I believe, but I didn't use too much because I couldn't tell a very big difference, and would rather use the rage on another heroic strike.

I only ever used attack stance. I didn't get defensive stance until very late in the test, and I heard it was more for groups anyway since it cripples your attack power somewhat. You'll have to ask another warrior if you want to know much about grouping and stances, because I mainly enjoy crafting and solo play.

For crafts, I didn't have a chance to get too involved in them unfortunately. In order to get past novice with the currect skil point system (which is going away of course), you need alot more SP than a level 15 is going to have free to spend on it. I was able to get fishing to 75, which was a nice source of extra income when I felt like a break from killing things. I also got skinning and cooking to 75. Skinning was great since so many players would just leave corpses there for me to skin and quickly amass leather from, in addition to my own kills Then I'd convert it to leather armor kits that add +8 armor to one of 4 different armor slot pieces, (hands, feet, legs, torso). So the extra 32 armor was an added bonus, though I don't think it had all that much affect. Also though, I could sell the kits to the vendor for 15 copper each, which added up quickly and was one of my main sources of cash for most of my playtime. I also tried out herbalism, but with not much of a market, and no idea where the auction house even was, I ended up just selling anything I gathered and eventually I gave up the skill. I wanted to try out mining and smithing as well, but I only ever saw one or two mineral veins, so that was a wash. I was able to create a single bronze bracer, which was worthless and made me all of 6 copper or so. Most crafts definitely seem like something for a higher level character to start out in, or for a second character that you can dump enough cash on to buy the ranks of the rofession (once the new system goes in). I think most serious crafters will just stay in whichever city has an auction house as well, for easy access to materials, which is unfortunate. I was really hoping that the crafting would be something I could succeed at even at low levels, but it looks as though only the gathering skills will be easy for novices to advance in.

As for weapons, I basically used the best DPS one I had found at the time, regardless of type. At the start of the test, the rate of learning weapon skills was insane. You'd basically get a point every swing right up to the cap for your level. This seemed to get tuned back down bigtime somewhere in the middle of the test. Luckily, I had gotten 3-4 different weapon skills up above 50 before then, so I had a wider range I could choose from and still have decent luck with. I started with the swords, since that's what I was given to start, then I found a nice mace on a Planestrider of about 3.5 DPS, then while fighting harpies I found the Scalping Tomahawk, which was about 5.0 DPS axe and was a green text item, one of the only greens I ever found, if not THE only, surprisingly. I used that for many levels before finally giving it up for a two handed mace which is the weapon type I stuck with till the end, though I'd switch back to axe/shield for some encouters. It seemed to me that even though the shield was giving me about 230 extra armor, and a chance to block, that I really didn't take much more damage at all with the two hander, and hitting a critical heroic strike with that sucker could seriously turn any battle. I was doing over 100 damage fairly often by the end of the test, which is a big chunk of health.

Talents.. I'm not sure what the story was, but it seemed as though I wasn't getting the points when I should have. Maybe they changed things so that classes with talents wouldn't get them as often as they eventually will to make things fair, but I only had 4-5 total by the end at level 15. Admittedly, I completely forgot to even check on my talents till around level 10, so maybe there was a bug that didn't let me keep all te ones I'd earned if I didn't spend them right away? Anyhow, I pumped up enhanced heroic strike so that it cost 3 less rage, which seemed like about the most useful of the low level talents. 1% to hit percentace or to crits or to some specific weapon type's attribute didn't seem like that big a deal. I put some into shield block % and defense rating as well, but I can't say that I noticed a difference. They need to spell out better how these stats affect things, because I had no idea other than 1 stamina = 10 HP.

Well, I think that's far more than enough rambling for me. I hope you guys found my experience at least somewhat interesting. I really didn't try to add any flavor to this one, but I had alot of info and opinions I wanted to get out there, and if I get to try out the game again before release, I'll try harder to entertain in a more focused journal. Comments would be greatly apreciated, I'll do my best to respond in the comments.





Part 1: Stress Test Impressions and More
by zorkwiz 	September 13, 10:13 pm
879 Views
Advertisement

After following WoW's development through this site and in the beta forums, I finally got my chance to see and play the game through the stress test and decided to write up my first impressions of a few low level characters I made and of the game in general.

My very first impression of the game was 'holy @#%@#, a stress test that isn't crushing the servers'. I literally had no network latency at all for the great majority of the test. I started pretty early in the evening (5pm eastern), so maybe I was fortunate not to be on at the absolute peak time, but to say that I was impressed by the stability and performance of the game would be an understatement. This is incredible for a beta, and even moreso for a 'stress test'. I was able to log into the account creation page, make my account, log into the game, and begin playing my first character all within about 2 minutes time.

When I first chose my server, the population of each was about 1400-1600 per server for the 12 stress test servers.

When making my first character, I decided that I'd try a race that very few others would pick, so that the starting area (I thought) would not be quite as crowded as most. I failed to realize, however, that Trolls start in the same place as Orcs, and tere were PLENTY of orcs to be sure. Nonetheless, I stuck with my choice at least for a little while. My Troll Hunter (Kragan) sat dumbfounded as I played around with the interface and tried to get acclimated to the game. I noticed right away that the stress test client is stripped down at least somewhat. The intro movies for the races are not in, the new death graphics are not in, and there may be other differences between the regular beta.

I was not very impressed by the graphics in the Troll/Orc starting town. They don't look bad certainly, definietly a good cut above other MMOs out there (I havn't seen CoH, but I hear it looks great). I think I just didn't really get into the desert surroundings. Everything is very brown/red and looks the same. The 'Den' area where many of the merchants and questgivers appear looked much better, but it still didn't feel very atmospheric.

One thing that really surprised me was the quality of the 'tutorial' if you can even call it that. I've played a number of MMO games in the past, so the interface was pretty familiar to me, but there was very little help or guidance about how to play the game. Every so often you will happen to click on something, or perform some action, and only then does a little help icon appear which when clicked on brings up a window describing more about the action that you had performed. I keep hearing about how Blizzard wants the game very accessible. Well they'd better put some more effort in to shorten the learning curve, because as it stands, unless you know how to move around and interact with your first NPC, you will have no direction. SWG, while a flawed game, has an amazing tutorial which is like an instance where you are shown the basics by a number of NPCs. That type of introduction to the game mechanics would go a long way.
For example, I clicked on another player after a couple minutes of playing, and the tutorial button appeared. When clicked on, I was told that 'I can tell it's another player because of the blue text' or something. Not very informative, not voiced, and the tutorial icon is very easy to miss, especially when you first fight or level up, and a number of the help messages get 'backed up' in the queue.
I hope that there is a more robust starting help system when the game launches, not only for inexperienced players, but for peope like me who still like to go through the tutorial even if I doubt I'll learn anything new. I like to be drawn into the game and eased into the interface. There is very little of that in the stress test.

Another comment about presentation would be the lack of any voices and the small number of sounds. I felt like I was in a bustling town from what I saw on the screen, but aside from some footsteps and music which I can't say grabbed me at the time, the world seemed a bit barren from an audio standpoint. I kindof expected the NPC questgivers to say something to you when you taked to them, if not voice their whole dialog, at least give you a greeting or something. As it is you right click and text starts to fill a screen. Killed the immersion a bit for me, but maybe my expectations are too high.

As for the gameplay, it is initially just like any other MMO game. You get a quest, go out and find the area where the creatures or items to gather are, and click to start combat or to start gathering. I have not progressed very far with either of my characters, so I cannot really speak to anything but the very beginning gameplay. As a hunter, I started with a bow and an axe, but no arrows, and no money to buy them (plus I never found an arrow merchant anyhow, though I didn't spend some time looking). So I was stuck with the axe for my first adventures.

Another little gripe is that the NPCs, unlike the PCs, don't have their names or Professions labeled above their heads like the players do. I imagine there may be an option to turn this on, but I never saw it. This meant that I had to put my mouse pointer over each NPC to see whether they were a vendor or just some random character. This was made especially difficult with so many players running around on the first night.

Despite the large number of people in the area, I did not really have to compete for spawns, which was nice to see. Maybe they increased the spawn rate for the stress test, but I can't be sure. My battles consisted of running up to an emeny, starting with a special ability strike that does double damage, and waiting for that skill to refresh while doing regular auto-attacks. Not too exciting, but I'm not complaining much at level 3-4. The levels go by fast, there are a few easy quests around to get you venturing out a bit farther and to get you those first couple of levels with ease. There is definitely a good sense of accomplishment.

You start the game with a decent sized backpack, with I believe 16 slots, which is usually enough to carry all the loot that you find while completeing a quest at the early levels. There are a good variety of loot items on the starting creatures. Each type usually has 2-3 vendor sellable items such as pelts, teeth, claws, etc. There are also an abundance of low level armor drops, with the majority being leather, then mail, then cloth, but that may have been just my random sample and not indicative of the overall balance of items. As a Hunter I could wear leather, so I was able to equip a good number of the items I found, which is always rewarding.

After some adventuring I ran around looking for a merchant to sell my loot. I did so, made about 2 silver, and decided I'd buy some new armor. I'd like to see the available inventory for merchants sorted a bit better. The merchants in the first town seemed to have very limited selections of items, which is fine, but the armor merchant had 2 different gloves, 2 different chest pieces, and 2 different belts. I assumed that items for different slots would be grouped, so I bought the first belt I saw, only to find out that there was another better one on his inventory that I could have bought. This is mostly my fault of course, but it would not have happened if there were a way to group items by slot or if that were done automatically.

Ok, now it probably sounds to you all that I am being pretty negative with my comments, and that's true. I think that it's probably more constructive though to let everyone know of my gripes so that they might get looked at and fixed before release. That said though, I really do have alot of praise for the game, and that is because of the second and third characters I started; an Undead Priest and a Tauren Warrior.

After I was a bit let down by the desert area where my Troll started his adventures, I decided to roll another character that would hopefully have some more interesting surroundings. Well, I can tell you that you cannot go wrong with the undead. I was blown away with the difference in atmosphere between the two tarting areas. Right from the start, when you wake up alone in a crypt, you know it's going to be a much different and more interesting experience. The town itself is gorgeous, and the woods surrounding it are definitely creepy. I was having more fun playing this character even before I looked at his available skills.

Choosing the priest was of course a much different experience than the hunter had been, especially at low levels. Being able to blast away with a nuke as your target approaches helps alot with pulling, and also helps alot in the crowded starting towns when level 1-4 players are fighting for spawns to kill for their first quests. I found that spawns were much more contested in this area than in the Orc/Troll starting land. Being a melee class in the undead town at release could be frustrating.

After doing a few quests and taking in the undead lands I took a break, and upon going back to the game I decided that I'd roll yet another character; a Tauren Warrior. This turned out to be the character that would carry me through most of the rest of the stress test, and part two of my journal will cover the adventures of Ronamor.





The experience of a lucky fan...
by Faisca 	September 13, 8:37 pm
1747 Views
Advertisement

I have been waiting patiently for many months to experience the tour de force that is World of Warcraft. I have had to rely on living vicariously through other people’s experiences in the beta, living off of screenshots, forum posts, and beta journals. I have tried numerous times to get a chance to play, each time failing miserably. I have literally spent the past month and a half since school started saying something to my roommate every day along the lines of “If I don't play WoW soon I will surely die!” without fail. Suffice it to say, I have been a very ravenous, excited, and extremely patient fan.

I am proud to now be able to say that I have experienced, first hand, the magnificence that I have been dreaming about; if only for three days. I was lucky enough to receive an invitation to the last couple of days of the stress test, and the experience was both blissful and painful at the same time. I say painful because it was one of the biggest teases I’ve ever experienced. For three days I was able to sit down at my computer and play this wonderful game, but now that capability is gone and I will most likely have to wait another month or so to play it again. It’s sad to have to say goodbye to my level 12 Tauren shaman, but the time we spent together was amazing.

Like I said, I only played for three days, but in that time I played one of the coolest games I have ever played before in my life. I have prior experience playing only one other MMORPG, set in a galaxy far, far away. But I’ve seen other ones played, read up about them, and have a general knowledge of the genre. I must say that in the three days I was able to wander about the World of Warcraft I was impressed beyond anything I’ve ever seen before in an MMORPG.

The environments are amazing. The walk (and subsequent environments) from Camp Narache, to Bloodhoof Village, and then to the plateaus of Thunderbluff was so much better than anything I had ever seen in that other game I mentioned before. Standing on the top level of Thunderbluff and looking out at the breathtaking view was more than I’d ever imagined. The towns and cities seemed truly alive. Everything from the buildings to the “doodads” to the characters (Cairne Bloodhoof and his bodyguards we’re quite cool) gave me the impression that this was truly a lived in Tauren city. As opposed to generic buildings and lifeless NPCs scattered about, which is what it could have been. Everything I saw impressed me beyond anything I saw in that other game, and I hadn’t even really left Mulgore, I can’t imagine what the rest of the world has to offer when I’m finally able to see it all in “person.”

I’ve read that one of the most impressive things about World of Warcraft is the quest system, and I couldn’t agree more. I was in the game with my roommate, so we both started out as Tauren (he a warrior and I a shaman), and went about getting the same quests and generally doing everything together. So I can’t say much about the shaman specific quests, but the quests that I did do were great. You can obviously get a better idea of quests from numerous other journals, but I just wanted to express my delight at the system Blizzard has set up. I love the fact that when you accept one quest it turns into another, and then another, and you are constantly being given quests to do that take you to see different people and different places. It’s so much better than grabbing a quest from some kind of mission terminal and going out to kill 20 creatures for a pretty crappy monetary reward (ahem... like in the other game…). Even though I had a few 'kill x number of creatures' quests, I've never had so much fun slaying wolves and cougars. Not to mention that the rewards you get from the quests are so much cooler than some money or a random crappy item from time to time.

I don’t have much else to offer that you wouldn’t be able to read in other journals, but I basically just wanted to share my experience because I know there are others out there who are like me and can not wait any longer for this game to come out. I share your excitement and your pain (especially if you got the same tease that I did). I’m very grateful that Blizzard has given me the opportunity to experience their masterpiece. And when I say masterpiece, I mean it. This game hasn’t even left beta, yet it is so much more than anything else I’ve seen or played.

I’m sure this hasn’t been the most informative or the best journal you’ve ever read. But like I said I just had to share my experience and my excitement. I can’t wait to see some of you in the game when it’s finally released. And here’s to hoping that open beta comes sooner than everyone is anticipating!


Into the Crater
by DarknessCrusader 	September 12, 12:27 pm
1884 Views
Advertisement

The Un'Goro Crater is the territory west of Tanaris. After venturing through the deserts of Tanaris, I was completely caught off guard by the lush beauty that is Un'Goro. Wild vegetation everywhere, trees taller than you can possibly see, so much green that even the water sparkled that color. If you thought Stranglethorn Vale was a jungle, then you've never seen the Un'Goro Crater.

Image 1There are tar pits all along the northern side of the crater and Hot Springs all along the west side. Colorful power stones adorn the scenery everywhere you look. And the water flows everywhere.

Image 2There is a giant volcano in the middle of the Crater that spews lava onto the surrounding region, adding a little darkness to the lushious green environment.

Image 3But what makes Un'Goro extremely unique are the creatures who dwell there. Along the southern side of the crater, giant insects have dominated the area, and along the north, giant tar elementals and even bigger gorillas call home. The east side has a giant stone guardian and giant raptors galore. But the truly amazing area was the west side where the dinosaurs have grown to thier full hieghts, towering over everything else, including us players.

Image 4There are also giant plants running around everywhere. They aren't hostile, but they move so fast it's hard to get a decent screenshot of one. And all along the walls of the crater live giant Pteradactyls who swoop down on anyone foolish enough to try and escape the Crater. There are a few safe passages out, a couple into Tanaris and one I found that goes into the unopened, Guardian of Blizzard blocked, territory of... I forget the name, but it's something like Slitheran.

Image 5As for NPCs in Un'Goro, I found two. There's a Tauren near the southern entrance who gives two quests, including one to get chased by a giant dinosaur all the way back to him through the Crater, and the other NPC is a human (or maybe dwarf or gnome) female on the northern edge of the Crater surrounded by tar pits. She gives a quest to retrieve her lost gorilla robot that was taken by the giant gorillas in the area. All three of these quests are above me at the moment, so I held off attempting any of them.

So after filling up my bag with gems and Un'Goro soil (needed for some Thunder Bluff quests), I decided it was time to Astrall Recall out of there.
-MaDnEsS 'The Right Arm of Thrall'




Stress Free Test, Part 3
by GrnArmadillo 	September 11, 5:22 pm
2071 Views
Advertisement

This was to have been my final update from the World of Warcraft, but Blizzard intervened and extended the stress test an extra three days to cover the weekend. All of which gave me a lot more time to examine highs and lows of traveling the world and the multiple characters in one that is the Druid.

Jetsetting: Frequent travel back and forth between the spooky forests of the Undead Silverpine region (best experienced at night – too bad the server’s on 24 hour time, meaning that many gamers will never see this or some of the other nifty night effects) and the rest of the Horde’s level 10-20 zone in the Barrens helped a lot to break up the monotony of those levels. Anytime my best quest options were way too hard, I’d just switch to the other zone. The result was relatively rapid progress at the cost of lots and lots of time in the air. In this level range, there are a lot more quests that send you to the opposite end of a zone to find your target before returning. (There was also an inexplicably trivial series of quests in Camp Taurajo, requiring me to kill a total of seven mobs most of which were located right outside of town – perhaps they felt a change of pace was needed after the quests I had to clear to get there?)

Training blues: Druids have it especially hard when it comes to travel in that, as a class only available to one race, we only have trainers in one flight-accessible area, namely our own Thunder Bluff. This meant one or two extra legs of travel every time I gained a level with new skills. While no city has all the possible trainers, Thunder Bluff is out of the way compared to the rest – it takes 2 paid flights, a zeppelin, and running in between to get there from Silverpine/Hillsbrad. I eventually broke down and anchored my hearthstone there because I was tired of the trip, but being teleported so far from where I was actually questing makes the stone so inconvenient as to be unusable EXCEPT for traveling home. I recognize the designer’s argument that “if you can get around quickly the world feels small”, but I don’t think it’s worth me spending time when I’m “playing” the game doing laundry/cleaning my room because I’ve already sorted my quests, organized my inventory, and done my leathercrafting. Some classes get things that ease the pain of running (the Shaman spirit wolf for instance) but I think this will be VERY old by level 40, and might honestly deter me from wanting to play a second/third character.

PVP: As the stress test has progressed, it’s increasingly common for people to make PVP incursions. Because I’m on a non-PVP server, these don’t really bother me the way they would if I was getting picked off in the middle of questing. The automated “town is under attack” messages go off periodically, and once someone staged a raid near the blimp station, causing me to go join to break the monotony of the travel, but otherwise PVP is there for those who want it and doesn’t bother those who don’t. Can’t comment on whether it gets less convenient once people are strong enough to wipe out the town NPC’s.

Skill changes on the horizon: Everything I’ve written so far about skills will supposedly be changed in the next patch. I don’t claim to know enough MMORPG economics to tell what changes limiting each character to two professions will cause. One thing I don’t like, though, is removing skill points and spending money on the professional training. As it is now, I prefer to think that I’m not suddenly magically learning how to be a tailor in one conversation with a trainer – the gradual accumulation of skill points that I will eventually spend on the skill represent my character practicing the basics off-camera until he can finally put it all together. Now, instead of that concept of gradual skillbuilding, money instantly buys you professional status. And it’s one more thing that characters are forced to spend their limited cash on. (Remember, for most classes the mount that supposedly answers my travel concerns costs a HUGE amount of money that you need to save for many levels.)

An experience to watch: I reached level 10 in my first day or so of hard gaming, and it took a total of 40 more hours give or take to gain the next 10 levels and reach level 21. (My offline life will be glad to have me back when this test ends.) That number is actually misleadingly low because as I mentioned, there was a set of extremely easy quests in Taurajo that gave me at least a quarter of the stretch from level 20 to 21 in the space of 30 minutes, but that averages out to four hours per level. I say that’s about right – it feels like I’m making progress, but if I weren’t playing this for all it’s worth now, I’d be leveling every other session. If this issue is important to you, pay close attention to see what Blizzard does about the mid-30s that have emerged within the 8 days so far of stress testing. I’m hoping either nothing or perhaps a slight tweaking to the diminishing returns for killing stuff weaker than you – one gets what looks like about half exp for a mob right up to six levels below you and then suddenly NOTHING for mobs seven or more levels below you. Personally, I think the returns should drop off quicker to deter low-risk grinding but never actually hit zero – it takes 20,000 experience to get from 20 to 21 and if some fool wants to grind level 1-2 creatures for 10 exp each, I say let them do it. Sometimes you need to attack such critters anyways to get light leather (higher level creatures drop higher quality leather, sometimes leaving you without the light leather your recipe needs) and it just feels unsatisfying not to earn even 1 exp for my troubles.

The many faces of the Druid:
The Good: The Druid is nothing if not versatile. I've teamed up with mages or warriors and kept them alive long enough to get the kill. Another time, I teamed with a Shaman and decided to go bear, trusting him to keep me alive (which he did) and using all my growling skills to keep aggro off him. I haven’t been in a group since obtaining the lion (cat?) form at level 20, but it’s kind of nifty – quick strikes that build up combo points on an enemy, which you then unleash with a finishing move that deals damage over time. If the enemy isn’t dead by the time you get five combo points, the damage will really start pouring on when you’re hitting him, your thorns aura is hitting him, and the DOT is hitting him. Also, the cat has stealth abilities that allow you to wander past mobs you just don’t feel like dealing with. I’m not sure exactly what causes it to break, but you can in some cases wander very close to enemies only a few levels below you without being discovered. Sneaking right past undead in Fenris Keep was fun. :)

The Bad: While the druid has all these advantages, he can’t use them all at once. A true hybrid class, take the paladin, is weaker than classes that specialize in one of his two roles but has the advantage of being able to use both sets of skills at once. By contrast, once you turn into a bear you can’t use the heals that make you more versatile than the warrior. De-bearing mid-battle to heal is VERY dangerous since your current HP will drop violently as you lose the extra bear stamina. (You won’t directly die from this unless you’re afflicted with some DOT, but it can put you in 1 hit kill range.) The caster Druid will very quickly run out of mana unless you never cast anything but your most efficient heal and spend half of every fight sitting. You can cast spells before shape-shifting, but you run the risk of running out of mana and being stuck in caster form since the shape shift skills increase in cost every level. (The only plus there is that you can tell when you have enough mana to shift since it’s a constant sized chunk of your mana bar – perhaps there’ll be a talent to reduce this cost.) The point being that the very versatility that justifies your being weaker than the dedicated classes at their roles won’t help you in battle because you can’t access the extra skills. The player of the druid gets variety without having to start multiple characters, but he must settle for being weaker at all of the roles.

The Silly: Druids can turn into an “aquatic” form that looks like a big mean seal. This has little combat application since it can’t be used out of water, but the seal swims quickly – I’ll actually dive into the water as a shortcut if I’m traveling along the coast. (There are some enemies in the water, but you’ll outrun them without too much damage.) I also find it amusing to creep up underwater on anyone who’s fishing. I fully intend to sneak into Alliance lands at some point, not to attack anyone but just to see if I can scare the crap out of some poor newbie fisherman.

And so, slowly but surely, my network of questing zones increases. Barring another extension, I’ll be writing up my final thoughts on the stress test next week. Thanks for reading!





A Vision of a Wolf.
by DarknessCrusader 	September 11, 4:40 pm
2598 Views
Advertisement

In Bloodhoof Village a quest will be given to find two Ambercrombe (acorns) and two Well Stones. Finding the acorns is no problem, just look under trees nearby and you're sure to find some. The Well Stones are a little tougher because the wells are guarded by humanoid mobs. But once you fight your way to the well, it's over with and you can return back to the Tauren village. Now comes the part that has caused alot of problems for players in the past.

The quest guy mixes the gatherings into a vision inducing elixer that you're supposed to drink. After drinking the potion, a spirit wolf appears and show you to your destination. The problem use to be that the wolf was a see-through white and most players would miss seeing him at all. And then they'd have no idea where to go to finish the quest.

Image 1Image 2Now though, the wolf has been turned into a more plasmatic, translucent blue. He's much easier to see and henceforth follow.



Image 3You follow the wolf across the bridge leading out of the village to the north. It walks along the road towards Thunder Bluff, but before he gets there, he suddenly stops and peers to the north-west. He begins to trek in that direction, cutting through packs of beasties the entire way. Fighting cougars and wolves and giant birds called swoops, you try to keep up with him.



Image 4Chasing after him you will notice a giant city up on some giant plateaus to your north-east. That would be the Tauren capitol city of Thunder Bluff.



Image 5Finally you arrive at a cave where the end-quest guy can be found. You collect your reward (some new leather boots for me) and return on your way back to the village. Not that hard of a quest really, and especially since you don't have to follow the wolf. You can either run straight to the cave or take as long as you want to get there if you know where it is. But the whole seeing visions of a wolf is kinda kewl in my own opinion! :)

-DarkCrusader (lvl.11 Orc Hunter)





Alliance did pay...
by DarknessCrusader 	September 11, 3:48 pm
1337 Views
Advertisement

I finished a quest in Tanaris which asked me to deliver a bottle to some guy in Booty Bay. You'd think, not that hard, just being a delivery quest. But the delivery part is not so easy when it involves Stranglethorn Vale, known for Alliance gankers at every turn... especially in the ganker capitol of Booty Bay.

But I thought to myself, what the hey... no-one seems on today, even those who are always on. Even Xinhuan was AFK to tell how dead it was on the Horde side. Funny thing, his away message read, 'I do not wish to go on a Temple or BRD run. Thanks for the offer.' Being a 55 mage, he must get asked for help all the time from lowbies like me! :)

Anyway, I had nothing better to do and no-one special was on who was available to do anything special with, so a Booty Bay run seemed like a good waste of time. Get rid of the bottle from my inventory and pick up some coinage for the effort... sounds good. So I run from Orgrimmar and jump on the next zeppelin heading to Grom'gol Base Camp in Stranglethorn. (Note: A little FYI since this seems to be an issue... south side of tower goes to UnderCity, north side of tower goes to Grom'gol.)

I got to Stranglethorn and began the trek from Grom'gol to Booty Bay. Not that long now that I have a mount and are of a level where all the mobs don't immediately become hostile towards me. I passed a Horde player and threw out a Frost Shock and heal, and an Alliance player and Frost Shocked his adversary also. Another Horde, another assist, another Alliance, another assist. Finally I found myself on the Naga Isle just north of Booty Bay. There's a couple of quests in Booty Bay to come here, but since I didn't like getting ganked every other minute, I never bothered with them. But the nagas are of a higher level than the surrounding mobs and did seek troll blood as I passed. I had two of them on me and decided to take them out. I dismounted my mount and began to cast my spells. They fell easily enough, but I had taken some damage and was out of mana. I whistled for my mount and as it was appearing, three Alliance gankers jumped me. There was a dwarven rogue (DIE guild), a gnome mage, and a human priest. I was sapped and my mount appeared under me. They hit me again which freed me from my stun and did massive damage to me at the same time. Since I was on my mount, I ran through them and off the other side of the Isle. They threw more spells my way, but didn't give chase. I quickly dismounted, swallowed a mana potion and healed myself. I had come so very close to being killed. I have a feeling they thought I had died. I circled around where they had ambushed me and found them fighting a naga of thier own. I struck. My mana was still low and my health wasn't maxed yet, but I wasn't planning on beating them. I just wanted them to see what it was like to get attacked from behind by surprise.

I died quickly. I almost had the priest dead, but I stumbled over the spells I was trying to cast and really didn't show them much of a challenge. Sorry... but I'm not a PKer and am not used to PvP battles.

As I ran to my corpse, I found myself standing at the end of a short wooden rope bridge. At the other end were the three ganks fighting the naga king, Lord Sakrasis (47+). I took full advantage.

I hit the resurrect button, healed myself, and charged over the bridge while drinking a mana potion. I hit the priest hard and didn't make the same mistakes I did before. I Purged her shield and Frost Shocked her before she even knew what hit her. One swing of my mighty staff took her down after that. Another couple swings on the mage along with an Earth Shock took her down easily enough too. And since the rogue had no healing from the priest, he went down to the naga king. That just left me and Lord Sakrasis and even though the three of them did minimal damage to him, I ended up killing him in the end.

So not only did I get to teach those Alliance ambushers a leason, I also got to steal thier kill and thier loot. Lord Sakrasis' Scepter dropped from him which is a held in hand item that adds +10 Intellect and +12 Spirit. I in turn gave it to the first person I ran across who I thought could use it, a level 42 undead priestess in Orgrimmar.

Funny thing, after that I ran into those three again. I had finally made it to Booty Bay to turn in the quest and while running through town, not only did I pass the three ganks, but about ten other Alliance players. While standing at the quest guy, I could hear several people casting spells behind me. I glanced out the door and there they all where, a dozen of them, buffing up getting ready to charge in after me. They where probably surprised when they did finally get up the nerve to run in because I was already long gone. My quest was turned in and I had no more business there, so Astrall Recalled back to my home of Orgrimmar.

And that concludes my PvP story of the year.

-MaDnEsS (lvl.48 shamie') 






The Undead feel no stress!
by Knolin 	September 11, 4:54 am
2314 Views
Advertisement

Wow. What can I say? I've been keeping tabs on World of WarCraft for years now. Since the day it was first announced and put on the website. At first, I was skeptical about MMORPG's. But the more info that was released, the more I had to have it. But was I leading myself down a path of disappointment? Surely something with this much hype, would only cause a letdown when the time finally came. All my hopes for this game were so high. I could find nothing wrong, and even when Bliz made a change that I thought was for the worse, I still defended it cause I was going to let nothing taint my image of this fine game.

So I get the chance, after not making the Beta. The stress test, delivering 7 days (plus more from the extension) gave me a chance to finally experience what I've longed for.

This game has exceeded my expectations by far. The hype is not just hype. There is a reason this game is so hugely anticipated. There is a reason people are frothing at the mouth to get a copy, join the beta, or even watch others play it. I can think of little to no negative comment to say about this game. I'd be more than happy if they released it right now. In fact, the sheer thought that this is only in test stages astounds me. They still have a lot more content they want to add, and there is already so much that can be done right now.

It took me several months. yes months, to even decide what I wanted to start off as. I chose the Undead Warrior. And I managed to get him up to level 20. I'm a melee type person in any game I play, and the undead are awesome. Thus, I didn't expect to see too many undead warriors, as the typical undead is more geared for magical use, in my opinion. According to stats, anyway. While they may not be the strongest warrior, they will still hold their own over their other warrior brethren.


You've probably heard it before, but I'll say it again. Screenshots do this game no justice. The scenery is spectacular. The background noise is enchanting, and the music is fitting. At the start of my adventure, I did what any other self respecting undead minion would do, after being brought back to life. I danced. (I'll admit. Undeads dancing mosh is a big influence on my character choice.:P)

Let's get down to some of the things that make World of WarCraft so wonderful. There is so much to do. The game is almost limitless and will appeal to almost -any- gamer. Hack and slash. Crafting. Questing. Exploring. Socializing. PvP. Did I miss anything? All of it is an option here, and all of it is exciting in its own way.

Crafting:
Crafting, while it may not sound very exciting, adds more depth to the game. The ability to create your own clothes, weapons, potions, bandages, and other assorted items, allows player to feel more unique. While you can gain decent stuff throughout most of your adventures in questing, custom armor makes it all that more special. The whole 'Made by Knolin' tag just makes you smile after a job well done. I was worried that gathering the raw materials would prove to be a burden, more then fun. But as it turns out, raw material is quite bountiful all over the lands. Some areas you'll find specific materials, but really it's fairly easy. Just turn on your 'Find herb/mineral/whatever' skill, and go about your normal business. Before you know it, you'll be in mid-quest, find a mineral deposit, and start mining in the middle of the enemy territory. (It got me in trouble quite a few times, but I had to get it before someone else stole my claim!) I chose mining, first aid, and smithing. Afterall, what is a stout warrior without some bandages and good armor? The materials also appear randomly. So it is useless to camp one area, and try to spawn-camp a mineral deposit. The best way to get materials, is to explore.

Questing:
For me, this is a big draw. I love doing quests, and feeling like I've accomplished something. The storyline varies for each race, and even class. There were many warrior-only quests that I stumbled on throughout my journies. And if you like to quest, than you'll never have to worry about a shortage here. There is -ALWAYS- something to do. Very early into the game, I would complete a quest, and almost literally 3 more would appear. Several times in the game, mainly when I went to visit the Barrens, my quest log would fill up. Now, one of my very few gripes is: There shouldn't be a quest capacity. Just gather all that you want! But whatever. It's not a big deal, and I kept good track of the ones I couldn't grab at the time, for future questing. And the quests make sense. The majority of the starting Undead quests were to find out more info, and find out ways to fight the Scourge. Also, to vanquish any invading humans that overstepped their bounds. None of the quests seemed like pointless busy work, and all of the quests had some relevance to the story of your race. Not only that, but every quest was very rewarding. With rewards like money, armor and weapons, potions, and mainly experience. You'll also find that you level much faster doing quests, then by killing random monsters. Which I also find appropriate. Oh, some other things too. You can pick and choose what quests you take. As I said, my quest log was constantly full, but I was able to abandon some quests in order to choose more rewarding or exciting ones. And the best part was...I could go back later and re-gain the abandoned quest. Wheee!

Exploring:
I tried to do as much exploring as I could during my final Stress Test days. And man oh man...I spent hours just doing that, and still completely enjoying myself. The Undercity is just plain awesome to behold. My jaw was open for the vast majority of my visits there. Abominations littered the castle ruins, keeping out intruders. I don't see how a successful raid on the Undercity will ever be possible. It's a monstrous place. Than I visited Ogrimmar...and man. Speeachless. The castle gates, the music shifted to a sturdy war-beat with drums pounding! Orcs as far as the eye can see...and no visit is complete without seeing good ol' Thrall! I saw everything from Thunder Bluff, to the Grove of Wonders. The infamous Booty Bay, and the Crossroads, to Mulgore and Thousand Needles. I didn't get a chance to invade Dwarven territory, and I fear I'll have to wait to see that. And riding on the flying mounts is beautiful. Never has a moment where I lack control of my character been so awe-inspiring. Watching people run around, and the land go by...it's just awesome. But it's a real accomplishment when Blizzard can make a game enjoyable just by walking around, and enjoying the scenery.

PvP:
Granted, I wasn't on a PvP server, but there were still plenty of fights that broke out. The Crossroads appears to be a favorite place for Alliance night elves, gnomes, and dwarves to visit. During my Stress Testing, I managed to kill 3 night elves, 2 gnomes, and a dwarf :) Not all at once, mind you. Not once did I hear anyone complain about PvP, even when the people were losing. Not one griefer did I see. The whole WoW environment is friendly, for the most part. But many were anxious and willing to partake in the faction vs. faction slaughter. I even participated in one raid...sort of. A handful of Alliance were pesturing the Crossroads, when it was decided that the Horde should counterattack the Night Elf villages! So there we were, a frenzied army of Horde! I'd say there were a good 30 or so at the start. But the Night Elves are tricky, and their forests are dangerous. Along the way, several casualties happened from the big scary spider things. Man, they ripped into us. Most of the group was level 15-22. Me being 18 at the time. I managed to survive, and make it to our first village. The guards quickly dispatched the remaining 15 or so of us. But that didn't stop us! We gathered our corpses, and swam to the opposite side, away from the guards, and began our march. Of course, there were only 6 of us then. We went on like this for a long time...and eventually swam out into the sea, in hopes of finding a Night elf island. Well, we all drowned. And in an attempt to retrieve my corpse...my ghost drowned. yeah...it was weird. But, I did make it to a Night elf village, only to meet the guards again. Luckily, this Night Elf was kind enough to dance with me and my Orc companion, before I hearthstoned back to the Crossroads, where it was safer :P

Community:
Very rarely did I see any people with a negative attitude, or rude griefers. There's always going to be a bad apple in any game, but the vast majority were very helpful, and very friendly. I got into a guild with tons of people I didn't know, and all of them were great. I made some friendslist friends who I went questing with several times. I really have nothing to say negatively about the WarCraft community right now.

In closing, this game is far better than any other I've played. Even in beta testing, it's more complete, and exhilirating than games that have been out for years. I've played FFXI, City of Heroes, Everquest, and seen Star Wars Galaxies. None of them, and I'm not exaggerating with this, hold a candle to WoW. You'll find Knolin, the undead Warrior, terrorizing the living when WoW is officially released. Beware!




Stress Test, Finale... or not!
by FlareCDE 	September 9, 7:56 pm
1307 Views
Advertisement

Stress Test Beta Journal #3, The Grande Finale... or is it!?

Well, as you all know by now I'm sure, Blizzard has extended the test to Sunday. Needless to say there was much rejoicing on the servers, and apparently a bit of complaining by the present elite groups. Since I was never really going for that contest anyways, seeing as how I could never compete with work, I could care little. I'm just happy to be able to enjoy the game for another few days.

Finally was in a somewhat succesful raid. For the Alliance, there's basically two ways you can go. North from Ironforge to attack the undead, or south from Stormwind to catch a boat in Booty Bay to Kalimdor and Orc territory. My guild, having already learned the former was folly, attempted the latter. Though we lost probably 75% of the raiders by the time we arrived at Booty Bay, the bunch that was left was well organized and fairly high level for the ST. After killing a bunch of Horde in Booty Bay, we proceeded to Ratchet. Being a red zone for the Alliance, we could only attack those who attacked us first. We had some fun killing a few Horde who did attack before they got organized and slaughtered us all. The return trip bugged out again on me though and sent me to Hillsbrad again.

PvP is a mixed basket at the moment. It can be slightly annoying in green zones, but you're safe as long as you don't attack them. The lack of rewards is something a lot of people complain about, but I'm not sure if it's because the simple act of raiding isn't fun enough (it is for me), or if the complaints are more driven by Blizzard's contest (which, honestly, is starting to sour the community). Once stronger guilds get established, there will probably be a good supply of PC defenders. I will probably join or create such a guild on retail.

My character is now level 21. I have developed a few minor complaints about skills specifically. They are bunched up into key levels more often than not. Level 20 gave me six new skills. Bu level 21 gave me none. Kind of made level 21 feel like little more than a step on the ladder, and that's never good. Also, the way the spellbook is organized by default is really bad, with spells just thrown in there. Sometimes finding the spell you want can be a pain, and I've picked the wrong level more than once on accident. I had finally been forced to install a UI mod (CTMod to be specific), so that I could assign hotkeys to the other bars. Although five bars is great, the fact that you can only access them one at a time is not. With some many abilities, it's very difficult to organize them.

My parties have become more organized. Around my level warriors seem to get a bit more in terms of hate management, so I have a lot less trouble having mobs run me over. I've also gotten then hang of not being able to use healing nukes frequently. Otherwise I end up mobbed and out of mana. Mana is in short supply, and there is a good minute or two sit down time, sometimes after every mob. Drinks help, but they aren't cheap and with money so scarce, I never buy them. Regen could probably use a boost, maybe only while sitting or out of combat. I found it kind of funny that resurrecting someone costs less than healing them.

I have tried an instance twice now, and while I definately think they're cool, I highly recommend that you shelve a lot of time if you plan on going in one. Depending on class, you may have some downtime trying to find a party. Warriors and priests are always in demand, paladins are usually good too. The rest of the classes rarely are being sought. The only thing that is really bad about them at the moment is that they respawn. It takes a good hour or two, but eventually all those mobs you killed come back. Since you resurrect at the beginning of the instance if you walk back as a ghost, this means you have to do the whole instance again, except for the bosses. Oh, and with the ST, more likely is that the server will crash, which has the same effect :P. It was really frustrating to have everyone die within sight of the final objective, after playing three hours to get there. I couldn't even raise myself (I had a soulstone) and run for it, because all the mobs behind us had respawned. And the quest is rated yellow now too to my level, so it kinda makes me wonder if it's all worth it. The quest is cool though.

The talent points system is an interesting way to customize characters, but it seems like some of the abilities really don't do a heck of a lot. A 1% increase in the frequency of criticals, for instance, is not exactly a spectacular gain for an entire level. Considering half the classes haven't even had talents implemented yet though, I'm sure there's still some tweaking to be done.

Enchanting needs to be tweaked too, as it's presently too expensive and yeilds very little until much later levels. Tailoring is fun, though I have much better equipment than I can tailor myself. People seem to be enjoying the tradeskills, although you really can't seem to work on them without fighting. You either need to find herbs or ore veins, or linen fabric, or some other key essential material that isn't sold in stores. Enchanting being the worst of all because that key material is green (magic) equipment, which you break down for materials.

One thing I should comment on is the emotes and the attention put into them. Targeting someone affects what the emote does. You can point, slap, or even fart on someone. There's far more variety than most games I've seen or played. The animations are cool, although the female human dance is silly. The gnome voices are funny. If you type something like 'hehe' or 'lol', the laugh emote triggers automatically. Just normally /say-ing something causes your character to gesture. With the addition of languages, this game could prove to be RP friendly, if enough people were interested.

All in all, I'm still having fun. I'm looking forward to release so I can work on a real character and not one I know will be deleted in a short while. I will prolly try some other classes and races for the open beta. In the interim, I'm gonna start looking into guilds. Many I've seen don't fit my playstyle, so I may just create my own. Who knows? :P

I'll prolly throw in a few screenshots of my character and whatnot in my last entry when the test ends. If there's anything else someone'd like to see, give me a buzz and I'll see what I can do.



PvP Fun 2
by AgentOmega 	September 8, 12:37 am
1975 Views
Advertisement

So I’m back with another thrilling story of the ongoing battle on the Sargeres PvP server.

Image 1After I hit level 20 and did the poison quests, I felt satisfied with this trial version of WoW and felt I didn’t need to level, since it would end in a few days. So, i set out once more to wreak havoc on the undead in SilverPine.
Image 2
I made it into Silverpine and killed a few when I began to target the NPC's to draw more attention, and more victims. Sadly, few came so I continued into the undead territory venturing to even strike down guards and merchants. Then, I came upon a zeppelin tower. I starred in wonder since I never rode on one before. I killed a warrior waiting for the zeppelin and soon it came. I hoped on board and slayed a shaman who exited. Amazing these fools, several levels below me, feel the need to attack me, and perish. But anyways, I boarded and flew hid in the back as I flew to Ogrim.Image 3

Upon reaching this new land, I swept past the guards and killed a few npc and a few foolish players. I continued running around yelling “death to the horde” after each kill, even though they couldn’t read it, when a pair of gnome mages were running towards me at full speed. I instantly recognized my heroic friend Firby, a level 31 mage. An amazing feet of a level to reach, but he was accompanied by another lvl 31 mage! They were fleeing from a towering shaman who fell quickly to a few well-placed skills.
After stopping to chat I grouped with them and we headed to Ratchet Town, the first neutral goblin town I’ve seen. Unfortunately, the zone is in Horde Territory, so the Horde could attack us at will, but my two overpowered mage friends and my assassin-self proved to be too much for the Horde. We ran the town uncontested as any who dare attack were silenced quickly and any who tried to run did not make it far from me. The problem was that the graveyard was fairly close and the continued to attack even though they knew they were no match.
Image 4
At one point, around 10 Horde surrounded us as we held our little dance off and taunted the horde. They circled waiting to attack, but not wanting to be the first to feel our fury. Eventually, we got the quests we wanted and left to Booty Bay after I surveyed the carnage that was left in our wake!
Image 5
Overall, I still feel that the rogue is an awesome PvP character who can devastate casters of all types within seconds. The two Gnome mages helped me also see that mages are truly an impressive PvP class, as they would annihilate anything around them. I believe that it depends on your play style to choice which class suits you better, but for PvP, the mage and rogue are truly beasts to always fear!

-Omega the “Assassin"





How WoW streamlines the genre
by MasterDinadan 	September 7, 10:11 pm
1315 Views
Advertisement

This is my first journal. I have been excited about this game since it was first announced, and especially since the beginning of closed beta. Thanks to the stress test, I finally got my chance to try it out. I played about 25 hours total, of which about 20 were devoted to my Human Priest (level 14) and 5 were devoted to my Dwarf Mage (level 8). After all of this playtime, I cannot find anything bad to say about WoW (except for bugs and instability, but Blizzard will take care of them by release).
The thing about WoW that I noticed from the time I started playing, and continued to notice, is that this isn't like any other MMORPG I've played. It's the same playing style, and I get the same feeling playing it, but what is different is that every other MMORPG I have played has had one or more factors which I (and many others) found VERY frustrating and made the games overall unappealing. The following are a list of common complaints for other MMORPGs, and how the problem is addressed in WoW.


Problem: Level Grinding. Other games will involve staying in one area, killing the same monsters repeatedly, in order to gain the maximum EXP possible. This repetitiveness gets very boring and you can spend hours and hours just trying to gain a single level.

Solution: While levels in WoW are by no means fast (took me about 6 hours to get from level 13 to 14, but I was rather slow), what is noticeable is that you will actually have FUN gaining experience. Instead of staying in one area killing the same mobs relentlessly, WoW actually rewards exploring. You get small amounts of experience just by uncoverring new areas on the map! But more importantly, the game's quests (and there are lots of them, I almost never find my quest log empty) have very significant rewards and give players reason to explore new areas to complete quests or discover new ones. Are these quests required to level at a decent rate? Certainly not! If you prefer to stay in one spot killing monsters, you can level just fine with that method. But myself and many others will prefer the entertainment provided by exploring and questing.



Problem: Death Penalty. Many other games of this type involve an enormous penalty for characters that die. This can range from potentially losing all your items making corpse runs to corpses that decay very rapidly (Ultima Online) to losing ENORMOUS amounts of experience and up to hours of your time replacing the lost experience (Final Fantasy XI, City of Heroes).

Solution: The frustration caused by death in WoW is minimal at worst. When you die in WoW, you can make a choice. You can pay a decent EXP penalty to revive at the graveyard with all of your gear intact. This may be a fine option at low levels when the EXP penalty is small, but higher level characters will probably prefer the second option. All you have to do is run back to your corpse as a ghost (ghosts run faster, and there is a graveyard in every zone). It usually only takes me about 2 minutes to get back to my body. And the wide range at which I can resurrect makes it relatively difficult for anyone or anything to rez-kill me. 2 minutes to get back to your corpse is not much of a set-back at all. I only once found myself a slight bit frustrated at dying, and that was because I was on a quest that required me to stay alive, and by dying, I failed the quest (most quests are impossible to fail however)



Problem: Huge downtime for healing. Other games I have played, most noticeably Ragnarok Online and Final Fantasy XI, will require a player to sit down for several minutes just to refill their own HP and MP. A few minutes to recover, is that so bad? But there is always a catch. In RO the times were ridiculously longer then just a few minutes. It could take as many as 20 minutes just for your health to regenerate completely WHILE SITTING. This meant that the only option for solo players was to carry around an enormous amount of expensive potions. In Final Fantasy XI, it may only take 5 minutes or so to recover, but the problem is that you will have to recover after almost every monster you kill. The only way to be effective in FFXI was to party.

Solution: I almost NEVER have to stop to rest in WoW. My health and mana regenerate rather quickly on their own. Mana regenerates much faster. Of course, since I did play a priest, it took me less time to heal myself and then wait for that mana cost to regen than it did to wait for my health to regen, but on the whole both regeneration rates were very high compared to other MMORPGs. And if you find that you DO have to sit down and heal, there are items that will make the healing process much faster. As you gain levels, you can get better healing items, which means that it does not require extra time for higher level players to heal up, because they may be regenerating several hundred HP a second with their food.



Problem: Tedious tradeskills. Tradeskills, or crafting, in other games is very often a tedious procedure. In Ultima Online, crafting skills took a very long time to increase, and they involved repeating the same action over and over. The same is true for many other games. In RO, a player had to level the very weak merchant class to ever get a blacksmith. In Final Fantasy XI, it would take a long time of increasing skills, and a lot of money spent before even being able to make useful items. As an alchemist in FFXI, I NEVER made it to a point where I could make an item that was even USABLE. Granted, I didn't play FFXI for very long, but it was very tedious making stacks of 12 beeswax which don't even have a use for me, and trying to sell them to make up for what I spent.

Solution: Not only are tradeskills FUN in WoW, but you can actually make things that are useful, right from the start! The gatherring tradeskills actually involve you wanderring around looking for herbs or minerals. This means you can find crafting materials WHILE your working on quests or exploring and fighting monsters. The only exception is fishing. I found fishing rather repetitive and boring, but that might hit the spot for some people, and maybe some people don't want to have to go places in order to work on their tradeskills. If that's the case for you, stick to fishing. I chose to make an herbalist/alchemist. Because I could find herbs everywhere, I never felt like I was wanderring around without a purpose. Even when I was in areas with mobs of much lower level, I found plenty to do just by tracking down herbs. As for alchemy, I could make 3 types of potions to start out, and all 3 were actually quite useful. I made my own minor healing potions, which saved my life on many occasions, and potions that increased my armor for an amazing SIXTY minutes. Every single item I am able to create is something that is useful. Although I have found that healing potions are the most useful and best sellers, the sixty minute stat potions are especially useful if you are organizing a large group to play with. Make a buffing potion for every player in the group, and the group's effectiveness increases greatly.



In every way, WoW continues to impress. I fully expected to have found one of these four aspects to be somewhat associated with a certain level of frustration, but everything in the game is just so convenient and it's all about having FUN. For once I don't feel like I'm doing WORK just to improve my character.





Stress Free Test, Part 2: A Crossroads
by GrnArmadillo 	September 7, 4:14 pm
1116 Views
Advertisement

I continue to see only limited signs that this is a stress test. Servers went down overnight once or twice and there was a pocket of lag here and there, but generally the game's running very smoothly. I suppose Blizzard is acknowledging as much with their new plan to move nearly 600 new players from the stress test into the closed beta. It'll be interesting to see how close to the level cap the powerlevellers get within the week - I've heard tales of characters in their high 20's five days into the week. I suppose Blizzard wants to know how quickly players will hit that endgame content too.

Sadly, Verial is rather unlikely to be one of the new beta testers, as I had limited time to play over the holiday weekend. But I have had the time to learn that the game changes a lot around the 10th level. I've spent most of my gaming career on console RPG's, and occasionally less complex CRPG's like Diablo II. I'm used to seeing a relatively linear experience - a bridge is conveniently out or a helpful guard won't let you pass until you've accomplished some task that required you to be at a level where you can face the new region. In WoW, you are free to run to the ends of the vast world from the very beginning. And it took a trip to the Crossroads for me to realize it.

You made a bear!: Many of the classes appear to get a major ability at level 10, and the Druid's perk is the bear form. The good is that this guy is a mini-fighter, accumulating rage in battle to be used for special moves that can weaken foes or deal more damage. You can't use your other spells while in this form, but your mana bar will recharge and any effects you cast before shape-shifting will remain. I've been able to reliably beat enemies a level or two above mine by opening battle with a few damage over time and regen spells before morphing, charging in, and immediately hitting the bear's status attacks. By the end of the fight, you'll have low health, but over half your mana bar, and thus low downtime. The only downside, in the words of my girlfriend when she wandered by and I showed her I could now turn into a bear, 'Too bad you can only see its rear end.' (This isn't entirely accurate - if you're running down a hill, the game is somewhat inclined to put the camera right in the bear's crotch.)

Thunder Bluff: I was also of a level to be sent to the Tauren capitol city of Thunder Bluff. This town features every type of merchant and skill trainer imaginable, and class trainers for all Tauren classes. Plus some more quests, of course, and a bugged leatherworking trainer you can see in Scorch's latest journal. There's also a flight master, who you can pay to fly you to other flight masters you've met (a trifle unrealistic, I suppose, for them to refuse your business just cause you haven't run to your destination on foot, but some concessions must be made to game degisn), an Inn, and other niceties.

Crafty: Since my last update, my druid picked up leatherworking to go along with his skinning abilities. The crafting allows you to upgrade the worthless scraps generated by skinning failures into usable leather, and then to make that leather into wearable gear. It also allows you to make armor kits (I'm told they're called 'patches') that permanently boost the defense of unenchanted armor you're wearing. As you advance in skill levels by making items, more rudimentary recipies change colors on the menu to indicate that they're no longer guaranteed to give you crafting experience. You then have to move on to more advanced recipies, many of which also require thread or other items from a trade supply NPC merchant. The recipes themselves also cost money, but I'm still able to upgrade my own gear for far less than the same would cost from NPC merchants. Note that you can unlearn skills (both trade and optional weapon skills you bought) at any time, but doing so resets your experience in the skill to level 1. Also, you will hit a cap at which point you will need to spend more skill points to upgrade your skill title - Journeyman was the next step up for my leatherworking. (Finding a staff that was better than my current mace, I unlearned Verial's mace skill to pay for the upgrade.)

A brief note on Soulbound items: Most quest reward equipment is 'bind on pick-up', while many rare drops are 'bind on equip'. When you do whichever of the two actions (if you're equiping an item from your pack you'll be warned that you're about to bind it), the item becomes soulbound, meaning it can't be given to other players. As I understand it, this policy is meant to discourage twinking/selling your old gear hand-me-downs to newbies. Most valueable and rare drops/recipes are bind on equip to allow you to sell loot you can't use or items you craft as you see fit. Also, soulbound does NOT inherently mean enchanted, so you can still apply the armor patches to your gear.

Wrapping up in Mulgore: By my last journal at level 10, I'd been through almost all of the quests in the Tauren home region of Mulgore. The last quest in the region, slaying a named Kodo Beast, is probably the only poorly designed quest I've seen to date. Cairn, the Tauren Hero from WC3, assigns you to 'use your tracking skills to hunt the beast'. This might have been nifty if it left tracks, but as is you're given no in game guidance from NPC's as to where in the vast plains of Mulgore to search for this guy. Fortunately, I'd seen players ask after the beast in the chat channels. Unfortunately, he's still a moving needle (who may have already been killed and not yet respawned) in a large haystack full of creatures that will attack you on sight as you run around vainly hunting for him. The first three times I fought him I lost despite being at a higher level because wandering enemies attacked me during the fight. Fortunately, I realized that all three of my corpse runs had been to about the same chunk or real estate, so I went back there, slaughtered everything that moved, and waited for the guy to respawn. There ought to have been a way for this quest to be less frustrating. But regardless, when I had finished, all the outstanding quests I had pointed out of Mulgore towards the Barrens and the Crossroads, so off I went.

The Barrens: For a Tauren leaving Mulgore, running through the Southern Barrens is a preview of sorts. You'll see all sorts of interesting creatures that are well above your level and aggressive, but fortunately don't venture onto the road. (You're warned in advance by the NPC's who advise you to go there that you should stay on the road.) The atmosphere is a bit of a wild fantasy African grasslands - herds of nonhostile gazelle (critters, can be killed for skinning purposes) dash across the road amongst lions, zebra, giraffe, hyenas, centaurs, razormanes, and raptors. Yes, raptors. And, if an NPC complaining that they robbed him was any indication, they've learned to open doors too. Finally, after a long run, I reached the Crossroads, an intersection between the Tauren newbie zone, the Orcish/Troll zones in Ogrimmar, and the boat at Ratchet. You can also enter Orcish Burrows and Watchtowers from WC3, which I found to be pretty nifty.

Home is where the Hearth is: All around the world you'll find Inns, where you can talk to an Innkeeper and ask for a place to stay. I didn't ask for one the first time I saw it, thinking it'd cost money, but it turns out that this option gives you a free Hearthstone and sets your 'home' to that inn. You can use the stone to warp back to that Inn from anywhere. Useful if you find yourself in a place like the Crossroads that lacks a trainer for your class - you can fly one way and warp back the other. The catch is that the stone takes an hour of cooldown time, but it's good for remote corpse runs, if you're ending your session and don't want to be in the middle of a dungeon when you return, or want to save a lengthy return flight.

Tourist of Warcraft: Characters receive small amounts of experience just for entering new areas for the first time. But seeing new areas, especially in a setting like this stress test where the character will be reset soon, is also a draw of its own. And so, while the Crossroads town contains the requisite amenities and assorted hunting, delivery, and exploration quests, I chose to wander. That's when this game ceases to be like a single player console RPG and becomes a truly vast MMORPG.

Suddenly, there are characters of other races (mostly Horde, but a few scattered Alliance stragglers too). I'm sure some of the slowdown in my leveling progress is the leveling curve slowing down, as it must since the game's level cap at release will be 60. But a lot of it is that I'm just finding other things to do. I'd rather explore than find creatures to grind right now. And indeed, it turns out I could have been exploring from the top.

There's nothing stopping you from running on the creep-free roads all the way to another race's city at level one if you wanted. If you get there, it seems that you can get most quests they can by just asking. This means you could do your newbie time in another race's zone if your friends really wanted to play another race that doesn't share a start site - just be prepared to run for a bit to get there. (On the upside, you'd have already unlocked some flight paths for future use.) Like recipes, quests will be color coded on your log to tell you whether you are appropriately levelled for them or not. I passed on a few of the real newbie quests in the land of the orcs but also got some easy exp, for instance picking up the Orcs 'report to the Crossroads' quest and being rewarded for going back where I was headed back to anyways.

This is where it really hits you. It's called WORLD of Warcraft for a reason. If I want to drop everything and hoof it over to Ashenvale to see the pretty moonwells, I can. If I want to take a Zepplin to the Undead Undercity (as a quest eventually suggests that you do) and run their 11-20 level zone in Silverpine, I'm welcome to. (I will be interested in the storyline of the undead joined the Horde - yes, they're Silvanus' free undead, but they're also still all 'infest all humans with Plague!' in a way that the rest of the Horde isn't.) In fact, I have to say that the haunted woods are prettier and spookier than the Barrens. The point being, this game really does feel like a world in a way that no game I've played before manages. The catch is an unfortunately large amount of travel time, especially since my class is race-specific and thus trainers are hard to find. But if that's the only price for a world like this, then it's a path working taking.





Hilarity Ensues
by VanityOutlet 	September 7, 1:56 pm
1300 Views
Advertisement

I would first like to thank blizzad for opening up their servers for a 100,000 person stress test. I'm sure i'm not the only person who appreciates the work that they have put into this game and the fact that the game seems more polished in it's beta phase than some other MMORPG's currently on the market. Also, a thanks goes out to worldofwar.net for giving me a ton of great information before I ever had the chance to play the game.

That being said...I'd like to talk about a funny thing that happened to me yesterday during the Stress Test.

For some background the character i'm talking about is a (currently) level 19 Tauren Shaman on the Norgannon (non-PvP) server.

This is part 2 of a seemingly random quest to gather information about bugs found inhabiting the Field of Giants south of the Cross Roads:

The local Scorpian Grubs weren't too fond of their brothers and sisters being poached for scientific study.

I quickly summed up the situation and realized that I, the mighty Tauren Shaman, was powerless against this overwhelming onslaught.

The moral of this story? As Yoda would say, 'Size matters not.'

I ended up finishing the quest, but the End Result?

Tauren - 1 : Grub - 5 




Adventures of a newb in WoW stress test
by Bronson 	September 7, 1:21 am
1543 Views
Advertisement

So, here I am looking at this webpage, www.worldofwar.net, and out of the corner of my eye I catch something. At first I shrug it off, but it keeps nagging me. A big headline that states You, yes you, can play World of Warcraft for a week for free! I thought it was talking to the lucky perosn behind me, but it turns out that this add was directed at me. I thought to myself, 'This is a scam don't do it!!', but I then realized that this sight is way too cool to scam people. I decided to give it a try. I opened up the URL and it sent me to the lovely fileplanet webpage where I then proceeded to give all information ever needed to scam me out of all the money I will ever earn in my life to the good ole' folks at file planet.

After all this I was a bit let down, because...nothing happened. Turns out I had to wait for an e-mail. Well, after about twenty minutes I recieved the e-mail that sent me back to fileplanet where I could download the World of Warcraft Stress Test patcher thingy. It took me a whole load of four hours to download the thing, then I installed it, restarted my computer, and then opened up the login screen of WoW. I was almost content just knowing what the login screen looked like. I stared glossy eyed at the screen embracing the wonderful music...then I wanted to play the game, even though I couldn't. I had to wait another few days for another e-mail. When that e-mail arrived I quickly made my account name and loaded up WoW and signed in. I was so excited that I just picked any random server, I'm still not sure which one it is, but I think it starts with an N, and created a character. Another problem...what to make?? I had already known that I was going to make a hunter, but which race, which race, which race? I had origionally planned on making a Troll, but I caught a glimpse of the Tauren and I must say it was a wonderful creature. Then I began to compare and contrast: Trolls are tall and lanky, Tauren are tall and built. Trolls have horns coming out of their face, Tauren have horns coming out of their face. Trolls are ugly, Tauren are oh so cute!!...Tauren it is!

I quickly loaded up the griffon screen, which is the wait screen while you load in your character, and waited oh so very anxiously. When loaded, I was swarmed by tons of hints, and for once in a long time, I felt at home in that small Tauren campsite. Dozens of bretheren all around me. Some dancing, some sitting, and some wandering around like me not knowing what to do first. I decided to get a feel of the game first, so I figured that I would try and kill a few things, this is before I knew how to get quests. This occupied my for at least three hours. Along the way I learned how to auto attack and do some other nifty little things. It was too cool.

I looked down at the General Chat box where people were typing like mad about how cool the game was, and I noticed people talking about quests. Someone asked how to get a quest and then someone else answered, 'Well, all you gota do is left click on a person with a ? over their head and hit accept.' I thought it seemed simple enough and it was. Moments later I embarked on my first quest, came back, and became amazed at how much more exp you get from doing quests than just killing things. I did another, and another, and another, and before I knew it I was more addicted than a new couple learning how to do it doggystyle.

After a few days and many quests, I reached the wodnerful level of 10, and I got a pet. His name is Kitty. He likes to attack things and eat raw meat, but I love him so. At first I debated between World of Warcraft and Everquest II. I now realized that it'l be World of Warcraft for life!

My brother and I plan on starting a guild when WoW is released. We already have a few people that are interested. One guy is from Flordia where all the hurricanes are hitting. I met him during the day the hurricane was going over his town. I thought it was the coolest thign. Here he is, sitting at his computer playing World of Warcraft in the middle of the hurricane. I thought this guy is Bad Mofo, so I asked him to join. He gave me his ICQ# and I'll be sending him a message when WoW comes out.

On a final note, I was too much of a newb to know how to get the pictures to work, so sorry about that, but it'l be ok. I hope to see you in the next two days of the Stress test. Send me a whipser if you'd like. Thanks for reading and have a wonderful evening.

-Bronson 




Stress Test, Midpoint
by FlareCDE 	September 6, 5:36 am
1410 Views
Advertisement

Stress Test Journal - Midway point

Well, it's been four of seven days now, more or less, so the test is halfway over. Overall, the game as far as lag and server crashes go, has been more stable than some released games. I seem to have missed the fun tonight as I was working, but since the server I play on isn't back up yet, I have time to type this.

My priest is now level 16, almost level 17. I've done the majority of quests in two or three areas, joined a guild, been on two (sort of) raids, and explored a lot. I've seen Kalimdor, said hi to my Nightelven allies in Darnassus, and visited the goblins of Booty Bay. My friend's list is getting longer each day, as are my impressions of the game. I typed up something the other day only to throw it out after a few more hours play.

Once things calmed down a little and everyone spread out, spawns have ceased to be a problem. In fact, more often than not there's not enough people hunting things, and I get mobbed if I try to solo. If I do bump into someone, more often than not we party up.

The quests, in my opinion, differentiates WoW from other MMORPGs, especially the ones I've played, more than anything. Most of the ones I've played or read about feature mainly hunting as the primary way to level up. You go to a field, kill a few thousand mobs, and gain a level. WoW doesn't feel like that though. You could hunt down things for experience, but more often than not there's a quest you could be completeing too. Even if it is just a gather or kill x amount quest, it's more of a reason to be about. Moreover, the quests give you incentive to move around rather than camp one optimal map.

I find soloing quests a little hard given my class. Quests are rated by colors, from gray to yellow to orange to red. The warmer the color, the more dangerous the quest. I find even some yellow quests difficult, but thats prolly 'cause I'm a caster. I can solo, don't get me wrong. I'm not just a heal-buffer that can't do damage. My holy light skill kicks solid arse, and my defense spells are good. And I can heal myself. I've never been fond of soloing though, I figure why play a multiplayer game and play alone.

The community has surprised me by leaps and bounds. Yeah, there's a few rotten eggs, but for the most part everyone is really great. People do group up a lot. Size of the group depends on the quests. Some quests really need a full party, others are best done in pairs or trios. My only complaint there is that quest drops can be a pain. Some quests are frustrating players, requiring hours of hunting the same monster for 8 or 10 drops. When other quests can be completed in half that time for betetr rewards, these quests will be regularly passed over.

I was wary about Blizzard's idea of guilds at first. Where I come from, guilds are small groups of 10-20 people. They know eachother well, and it's generally alliances that win the day in PvP encounters. With a minimum of ten and most popular guilds averaging in the hundreds, WoW's guilds are huge. The one I've joined had over 125 people last I checked. While the guild chat channel can be a little chatty sometimes, I've found that it's not as bad as I thought though. The number of people in the guild gives you a larger party pool, where you can poll several regions and players to see what quest you might want to join a group and do. And it's essential for planning raids. I do kinda miss the small knit everyone knows eachother feeling, someone in my party realized he was in the same guild as me like 30 minutes after we formed the party (we were in separate maps meeting eachother), but it's not as bad as I thought.

Raids are... well, funny is one way to put it. Due to the short amount of time availible, we can't just wait until we're level fourty and go romp over to the Horde to say hi in the least friendly way possible. One raid I went on we left Ironforge and walked to Silverpine... on foot. It was a mad dash through harsh maps, and by the time we arrived the massed Horde force was like double our numbers, which were half what we started with. It was pretty unorganized, but kinda fun.

The second raid I was on was a total disaster. This one was organized by a bunch of loose people as a counter attack. Leadership was rather lacking, and noone was listening anyways, so in the end about ten of us made it to Booty Bay and the rest were scattered around the continent. I did finally get to kill a Troll though. After which I promptly fell through the world and ended up respawning in Hillsbrad. Oops!

As far as bugs go, there haven't been many. The 'bugged' monsters are perhaps the most common. It kinda sucks if it's a quest monster but easily ignored otherwise. Blizzard's system in place for reporting bugs is easy to use though. I hope it remains for the retail version, as no game is ever perfect.

I still feel some areas feel a bit empty, and I trust this is mainly due to the beta status. There are many empty shops in Stormwind, and though there are some very nice wandering NPCs, the complete present lack of PCs is kinda sad. In fact, the major cities don't seem to be hotspots at all (yet). As the main pack of players progress, they've moved from (for humans) Elwynn Forest to Westfall and now Redridge is starting to become populated. Stormwind, while useful as a Griffon hub or a quick pitstop, is otherwise rather empty. I really can't say much on this though. Players do seem to spread out, albeit slowly. If the test ran a month rather than a week, it'd be interesting to see who was where then.

I haven't really tried tradeskills. My frequent party member is crazy about campfires, of all things. I took enchanting, but it cost me 50 silver just to add +5 health to my bracers. Unless component prices come down, I fear tradeskilling will only be accessible late game. The smiths in my guild are already counting money in gold pieces only.

The story is what has made Blizzard's games shine in the past, and WoW is no exception. The quests make you feel like you're doing something in the world. Hopefully as the game matures, more content will be added and the story will evolve.

Overall, I'm having fun. I was pretty sure I wanted this game from the get go. Now I'm positive. My only real descision is if I wanna play a human or nightelven priest on final release :P.

I do have one observation though. WoW's biggest failing point is it's character customization. While it might be on par for some of the older MMORPGs, it's far behind the newer ones. With only one phenotype for each gender, pretty much every character looks the same. The buff male human spellcasters look rather silly. Even clothing isn't exactly varied. There's a fair variety of faces, but the customization stops there at the moment. Hopefully Blizzard will add more character types and animations in as the game progresses. Nothing's worse than having the avatar you constantly stare at become boring and dull.

I think that's everything for now. Luckily my work load this week is very light, so I have lots of time to play. I am taking lots of screenshots, but none have really caught my eye. The game is far better looking in person than in screenshots anyways :P Hang on tight, and hopefully it'll only be a few months more wait. This test does beg one question though: Better to have loved and lost, or never loved at all... I dunno what I'm gonna do with myself, and I'm not sure if I'm better off for having this sample, or if I will be merely even more crazed :P.



Bugs Bugs Bugs Bu-
by Scorch 	September 5, 10:42 pm
6977 Views
Advertisement

I'd been saving this up for a while, but with the Stress Test now I figure a greater percentage of the people reading this would have an idea of what they're seeing here. This is mostly a collection of screenshots of bugs, unfinished content, other oddities that I'd been collecting since the beta began. Most of the 'serious' bugs have to do with skills and combat and such, and it's hard to take a screenshot of them, so you won't see them here.

Chests



Early on in Phase 3 there were some really odd things going on with chests and crates. They would spawn in odd places, with nothing in them. Worse, if you clicked on them, it would keep respawning... and respawning.. and respawning... so you ended up with strange sights like this, huge lines of empty chests.

Why: Who knows. It was fixed about a week later on the server side.

Display Errors



In the first shot I died in an instance, respawned, and came back to life like this. Everybody's portrait is green, nobody has a name, and look - I'm regenerating life and mana while I'm dead! I've also had situations where I've been able to cast healing spells on ghosts as well. The second shot is more common, Everyone shows up as an 'Unknown Being'. This includes party members, sometimes monsters as well.

Why: Seems like some client-server desyncing that has to do with crashing and logging back in. Sometimes it can be fixed by moving within clipping range of your partymates, most of the time you have to relog and it'll be fixed.



It's suppose to say 'Azeroth', 'Kalimdor' when you pick from the world map. Instead it's 'Spell, Ability, and Ranged'. What? The second one happens a lot; it's the standard XML error message window.

Why: With the interface code being opened up for modding, XML and Lua and what not, it seems a lot of things in even the standard interface are a bit flakier than it should be. Drop down menus are one of those buggy things. I've seen the list for the Zones from the world map (Dun Morogh, Eastern Plaguelands, Elwynn Forest, etc.) pop up in strange places. IE I'm tradeskilling and click the drop down menu for leatherworking, and all of a sudden I get that zones list. This shot above I'm pretty sure was taken without any custom interface mods installed.

Instances



Instances are suppose to be private dungeons, and only your group is allowed in. So... why is this Alliance in our instance? :x A GNOME no less! Fortunately we gave it a good squishing.



Instances are entered through portals; once you step through you're suppose to be taken 'inside' your private dungeon. Sometimes though, the portals don't work, and you end up walking right through the gate and past. This is what it looks like past the Scarlet Monastery instance entrance.

Flights



This is a well known bug that causes players to look like they're still on a bird, even when they've finished the flight and are walking around. It looks like they're standing on the back of a bird, and the bird is floating around. If the bug happens to you, you won't be able to see it, but others will.

Why: I think it's pretty random, mostly due to server hiccups. One way I heard to consistently replicate this bug was to have a Warlock summon someone while they're still in flight, I'm not sure if that works any more. Most of the time thought it seems it's just a lag issue I think, the client must have forgot to tell the server the flight is finished and other players see the player as still in 'flight' mode. The lag part is obvious is in the next two shots.



First shot is on the PvP server, with several Horde players at a Gryphon point. As you see we're killing the players who are arriving to reinforce the town. Because of the stress of loading new character graphics, most people lag as soon as they touch down, and are dead before they can come out of it. There are several bodies and bones in MID-AIR... not to mention the Gryphon flapping in place, with a dead body on the back.



Look! Up in the sky! This is even more weird. This guy is just flying in, and on his screen he's probably arrived at the landing point. But we're seeing him in mid-air, nowhere near the flightpoint. And we're shooting spells at him to boot. People are just laughing because we don't get to shoot people out of the sky very often.



And I don't even know what to make of this... somebody just chopped the hind legs off of a Hippogryph.

Druids



Well this is the Druid's water form. You can only shapeshift to it if you're in water, and as soon as you step onto land, you automatically shift back into normal Druid form. So how come I'm floating around in Evil Seal form in the middle of the Undercity?

Why: Mages can cast a group teleport spell after lvl 40. Have a Mage in your group cast a teleport spell underwater, change into Evil Seal, then swim through the teleport portal. You come out the other side hovering around like this.

Some other ways of replicating this include: having a Warlock summon you while you're still an Evil Seal. Also, I heard bunny-hopping out of the water sometimes works.

Monsters



Move along, nothing to see here. Just a centaur walking nonchalantly along the bottom of a lake.

Why: Water combat is not exactly done right now. Underwater mobs are all just standing around at the bottom, there's no z-axis movement at all. There are indeed fish mobs in the water, but they're actually just animated in a 'hovering' style, so it looks like they're swimming in the water. If they chase you onto land, it looks like they're floating in mid-air.



Nice that this bear has walked up a sheer cliff to get to me.

Why: There's problems with any 3D game, where you get to a spot where you can shoot a monster, but it can't reach you. The old solution in WoW was that the mob would instantly teleport over on top of you and begin fighting. This wasn't ideal for a lot of reasons, so now (since phase 3) if a mob can't calculate a path to you, it'll walk right up walls and cliffs to attack. Sometimes even up ridiculous inclines that players can't get up, like in this case.

Textures



This is just an unfinished Ancient of Lore. Default untextured stuff is just purple in game. This NPC was needed for a quest, so that's probably why they put him in in this state. Still, it was funny to walk through Darkshore with its bleak, grey colour palette and come upon a giant, bright purple thing.



There's lots of places where the world is just not finished. First screenie is just a case of wandering up a mountain and walking to the edge of the world... which is quite common. Most mountains have no walkable path to the top, but it's hard to check every single hill in the game. Second shot is quite common, no water texture placed along the shore, and it's possible to see right through to the bottom.



This is... it's called a 'Shane Cube', it's the placeholder texture for any unfinished textures in the game right now. I've heard that guy is everyone from Samwise (artist at Blizzard) to one of the guys from N'SYNC, so I don't know. The Goblin in that first shot was undergoing a reskin, and the body was ready but the head wasn't, so you ended up with a freaky apparition like that. The second shot, it's actually a Ghoul casting a Bloodlust type spell, except the Bloodlust graphics on the hand weren't finished, so you ended up with this hideous abomination.



These two are just camera clipping problems actually. First one is when my character stepped off a branch outside the World Tree (aka. Teldrassil) and all I could see from my camera angle was that. Second shot is a camera problem in Stormwind, viewed from that angle you could see right through all the buildings and down into the ground.

NPCs



The leatherworking trainer in Thunder Bluff has a bit of Purple Rabbit gene in her it seems.

Mounts



Dancing on top of mounts...

Why: Mounts weren't finished and basically any sort of 'emotes' in-game would cause your toon to stand up on top of the mount's back. Dancing for example. But also, certain words trigger emotes; typing 'LOL' for example, would cause your character to do the laughing animation. Typing 'LOL' while riding your mount would cause you to start riding it like a surfboard.



Again this was a weird problem with unfinished mounts. Certain actions done to people on mounts would cause them to appear like untextured models. First shot there, they were polymorphed by a nearby NPC (as part of a quest event). When they changed back they got all... pink. Second shot, I cast Entangle on a mounted Night Elf. Suddenly she popped up like that, an untextured blue model. Just flat out weird.

Miscellaneous



There was a new guard system put in to prevent players from griefing NPCs repeatedly. Basically, the NPC being attacked would summon a couple of guards. Sometimes (well, most of the time) they don't really work that well. I've heard of players that wander too close to an enemy town, one of the guards would spot them, summon like 3 or 4 more guards, then they'd all go ape**** on the player. In the above shot, I think what happened was the NPC vendor got attacked, summoned some guards, kept getting attacked, kept summoning more guards...



...

Who the hell's Kevin?



Throughout all of Phase 2 I think, there was this crazy animation bug that caused humanoid models to behave bizarrely when they died. In their deaththroes, their arms and legs would go flying up at impossible angles, their heads go spinning around 180 degrees, and their bodies would lie huddled on the ground in some grotesque position, like dismembered them and reassembled them. It was all quite cringe-inducing.

That screenshot... the Tauren in the back died properly. My poor troll however, well his torso is at 45 degrees from the ground, his head is somewhere near where his right leg should, and it looks like the right arm got retextured as a leg. What. The. Hell.



- Scorch
Cui ci sono dei monstri







Stress-Free Test, Part 1
by GrnArmadillo 	September 3, 6:58 pm
1904 Views
Advertisement

So, after a solid day of playing the stress test, I've got a level 10 Tauren Druid named Verial. Maybe it's cause I'm playing an under-played race, but I've seen very little cause for stress in this test so far. Here's what I have seen.

Bottom line first: This game is nearly finished. Don't get me wrong, I realize my character, and half the others, doesn't have talents yet. I realize some mid and upper level questing stuff isn't done. I realize there's a lot of work to be done in class balancing. But the engine is up and running, the world copes well with large numbers of players, and overall things WORK. The other stuff needs to happen before release, but this game is generally well designed.

The Good: Starting a new character is a lot of fun. The level curve lets you go pretty fast for those first few levels, so you feel like you're making progress. The Questing system, wherein NPC's with prominent exclamation points over their heads tell you where you need to be going, does a good job of showing a new player the ropes - for instance, I had a hard time finding my class' trainer in the mob of Tauren in the starting villian, but there's an item in your starting backpack that gives you a quest and a marker on your map to find said trainer. There also appear to be quests that revolve around killing basically any type of mob I've seen in the game so far. These are good and bad - on the one hand, they don't do much to suggest to you which of those mobs are your level. But you can figure this out by mousing over the mobs, and it gives you an incentive to go out and explore, rather than just sit wherever you think you can best powerlevel.

The bad: I only encountered one serious problem - my character got trapped in a tent at the Venture Mining camp, and I had to wait for a mob to respawn and kill me to get out. The interface isn't perfect. As nearly as I can tell, the 'target closest enemy' button has no effect unless you/your party are already in combat with said enemy, which means you have to actually right click the moving target in order to select it. The camera is generally good, but occasionally picks the wrong angle. For instance, I was hunting harpies on a mountain side, and the camera settled on a view from above my character, looking down at a 3/4 perspective. I didn't know how to switch views at the time (the home and end keys) so I was stuck running up the hillside to try and get above my enemies so I could see them. That bit.

The Ugly: I waded into the Venture Mining Co's mine with a group of five players. The place was utterly crawling with goblins, and we eventually got lost and died somewhere deep in the dungeon. We made a good faith effort to recover our corpses, waiting for everyone to arrive so we could all res at once, and we were just wiped out again in seconds since there were so many mobs around our corpses. We were forced to hit the spirit healer (the alternative would have been 4-5 corpse runs to get our bodies out of the mine). Point being, this dungeon was rather casual-player unfriendly - an hour into our dungeon crawl, we found that we were going to need another hour just to crawl back out, refighting everything that had respawned behind us as we left.

Interacting with other people: Grouping isn't necessary - you can certainly kill mobs with reasonable speed solo. Depending on the type of mob, your exp pace may or may not be faster in a group. Also note that depending on what quests your group is on, being in a group can help or hinder you. Some quests call for you to 'kill X mobs'. If you're in a group for these, you get credit for each monster your group hits. (Many people don't realize this and decline group invites, causing the quest to take way longer for everyone concerned.)

However, most killing quests involve getting claws or other body parts from the mob. These can be greatly impeded in a group because each dead creature can only generate one of said items. I also couldn't figure out how to let my group member take the item from 'my' corpses when it was his turn during round robin looting, so we had to set it to free-for-all. This was okay because I was working with a guy I trusted after a previous quest, but would be a problem otherwise.

No Stress: In general, other people are nice. I've been healed by passers-by without asking pretty frequently, and I've only ever once had someone claim a named mob while I was occupied cleaning up its minions. The mob respawned within 2-3 minutes, though. Because I'm playing Tauren, I haven't seen serious crowding issues in my newbie zones. Neither have I seen serious lag. I hear the more popular races are a bit over-crowded, but that should clear up as people escape the newbie zone, and there should be more servers for release.

Economic Quirks: As of yet, I have not had access to any auction houses. This means that all the loot I have essentially has to be sold to the NPC's, who pay very little and charge a lot. I recognize that it's good to encourage player-driven economy, but equipment from the merchants is just massively overpriced. Maybe this will be less of an issue for me once I get to the point where I can more easily sell my excess loot. Skills can also be very expensive, and it's money you can't (to my knowledge anyways) get back if you decide the skill sucks. (This is a potential issue if they nerf stuff.) Anyways, in the mean time I'm lugging around a lot of stuff simply because I DON'T KNOW how much it's really worth.

Balance: So far, I like the Druid. All the skills that I've shelled out for have been useful in at least some circumstances, though I haven't gotten to do much testing on my new bear skills yet. I do feel that my instant cast spells (one a HP regenerating spell and the other a DOT) are MUCH better than my regular spells just cause they don't get interrupted, but I suppose the casting spells have their place too. Another nice touch is that more advanced spells are actually MORE mana efficient - it sucks to have to use a lower level spell multiple times, waiting for casting and cool-down each time. This way, you can use what you've got without wasting mana. I'd basically picked Tauren Druid as a combo I was unlikely to play in release so that I've be doing new quests and whatnot the next time around. And I've been pleased with it, even though the class doesn't have its talents yet. If this is one of the bad classes, then the game's in great shape.

Skills: You gain proficiency skill in each weapon/class of abilities you use every level. Each of these skills is capped at each level and usually you top off the cap extremely soon after leveling. New skills can be bought from the class trainer for cash. However, languages, weapon/armor proficency, and trade skills are bought with skill points. These you acquire at a rate of a few per level (I have 38 at level 10). Languages and armor skills can be bought from your character profile page. (Note that some weapons require multiple proficiencies - I bought mace skill hoping to use a two handed mace only to wind that 'two handed' is a separate proficiency.) Trade skills are bought from a trainer and paid for with skill points. Supposedly you can retrain your skill points, but I haven't found the way yet. I picked up skinning, a skill which has paid for itself both in selling hides and in occupying some time for mana to regenerate in post combat. I haven't gone after leatherworking yet cause the recipies cost money.

Atmosphere: The atmosphere is great. Alright, leaping Tauren are very silly looking, but in general things LOOK like the World of Warcraft. In one very early zone, giant Kodo Beasts far above the players' level go stomping by every so often. They're non-agressive and will probably stomp you if you attack them, but they add a lot of flavor. The same is true of the pack of wandering centaur archers.

Bottom line 2: This is a true RPG, more like Diablo than Warcraft but much deeper. Aside from the targeting issue I mentioned, combat goes smoothly and can be exciting. There are still definitely some issues to be worked out, and dungeon crawls may be only for the truly dedicated, but in general I'm looking forward to this game.





Stress Test, Day One
by FlareCDE 	September 3, 9:17 am
2237 Views
Advertisement

Day 1, September 2, 2004

I figured I wouldn't get in as I applied late, but I did. Since I promised myself long ago that I'd write something if I ever did get to try the game, here goes. I'm not sure any of it is truly groundshattering or revealing. At this point, a good 100,000 people are getting a free demo of the game. Well, despite what I might have predicted, getting my account set up was a breeze. It may have something to do with the fact that Blizzard changed webservers before the test. The email came late, but I had found a link in the forums beforehand, so I got in pretty quickly.

The login screen is amazing, and I've been drooling over it since I downloaded the program days ago. I could just sit there and listen to the welcoming score for hours. Now, finally, I had the keys to the city, however, so it was time to move on. Entering my name and password, I was given a list of servers. There's 14 of them, 4 being PvP. After a short debate, I picked the least populated PvP server and started character creation. PvP has never interested me. Yet I managed to tolerate it's presence when I tried out Lineage 2 a few months back, and the articles I've read about the FvF system in Wow really interested me. So I figured it's worth a shot.

By far, and perhaps one of the few weakest points of WoW is character creation. Customization, beyond the generic face, hair, and coloring, is pretty much nil. Sadly, this means a lot of players look similar, although there is enough head combinations to make twins fairly uncommon. Which every character having the same phenotype is pretty standard for most games even now, this is starting to change. But then, I wouldn't put anything past one of Blizzard's patches.

After another quick debate, I chose to make a priest over my initially intended mage. I am mainly interested in party play, and decided for simply practicality's sake getting parties with healer classes is far easier. I went human, just because. Female because all my characters are female, even if I am not. It's tradition ;).

I arrived in the human starting location, and immediately began fiddling with the GUI. I reset my graphics to max. Amazingly, the only problem I had with the graphics, despite my computer being mediocre, is zone changes. Those are rare enough that they aren't too much of a problem. I took a quick look around and immediately noticed a giant yellow ! mark over a nearby footie. After the second it took to figure out how to actually talk, I was on my way to doing my first quest.

I did a few quests solo, and reached level 4. Although not entirely bored of the solo grind, if it could be called that, I decided I wanted to try forming a party. As luck would have it, I bumped into a warrior with a similar notion and we hit it off. We stayed grouped until I finally decided keeping my eyes open any longer wasn't an option. And I was glad for it too. Nothing's better than exploring and seeing the great sights the game has in store than having someone along to share the experience with.

We immediately discovered a few pitfalls, however. While quests involving actual kills are halved in difficulty, quests involving items can sometimes take more than twice as long. The kills quests have another problem in that the areas are very heavily camped at the beginning of the test. We passed over a few quests in order to alleviate the situation, but it seems many of the spawn rates need to be upped, at least during the initial launch of the game.

The highlight of the day, however, was definately when we decided to march into Stormwind. As you walk through the giant stone gates at the entrance to this truly massive city, the music ramps up, and drums and fanfare play as you walk past mammoth monuments on your way into the city. A player could spend hours exploring the city, though it felt strangely deserted because most of the players were still in the forest behind us. We bumped into a Nightelf and had our first ingame look at the race, and it was cool.

We had to go back though, and do more quests. As I played, our two player group turned into a five players group consisting of a paladin, two warriors, a rogue, and my priest. I began to discover that playing a priest in WoW is no easy task. Enemies really like switching targets, as my healing spells do a lot more 'damage' than my allies' swords possibly could. I found myself running around a lot until we got the hang of things. I actually found that it was often more efficient to add my damage output using attack spells than to just support.

By the time night had begun to fall on the west coast, and therefore WoW, I had reached level 9 and half the group turned in. Out of the experience I had gained, I'd say a good 80% of it was from quest rewards. Prolly because of the size of the group I was in, kill rewards were small and insignificant by comparison. I did enjoy myself far more than I would just level grinding though. Even though a major portion of the quests are kill this and get that, it's a heck of a lot better than senseless grind, in my opinion.

We played a bit longer, and I decided I wanted to try a griffon ride before bed. Unfortunately, though the inital ride was cool, the game tanked on my halfway through and crashed. The game, otherwise, remained very stable. The server also stayed up for most of the day, only going down twice later in the night. If Blizzard sincerely wanted to stress their systems, today was a failure. Perhaps it'll pick up more over the weekend, since it seemed like only maybe 10-15 thousand people were logged in tonight.

And that was my day. I am very impressed by the game. It has some issues, mainly with a lot of empty feeling, particularly in Stormwind. Spawn rates seemed rather low. I don't think you could actually level off just grinding alone, and I'm not sure if that's good or bad. There's a few minor bugs here and there. And presently the only help you'll find is other players. Which isn't much help if you don't know that /1 is region chat :P.

I like the quest system, though, and the exp rewards feel good. It did seem like the game was a bit linear initially, if you keep following the quest trail, but I think thats delibarate. And you can just jump off and go elsewheres at any time. I haven't gotten to any tradeskills, although I did learn enchanting. It is, however, insanely expensive. In fact, a lot of things are, especially when the only good way to get money (that I've seen so far) is questing, and there's only so many quests.

And, against my own initial belief, the community isn't half bad. Believe it or not, the worst of it was the closed beta testers. While some were very helpful, a few were complete degenerates. They ranted and raved about how they couldn't import their characters, and insulted anyone who asked questions, and were generally rude. Blizz prolly shoulda kept the servers separate.

Well, at any rate, I plan on playing all day tomorrow, and seeing more sights. If you find yourself on the Tichondrius server and in need of a priest, feel free to look me up. My character's name is Kayira, and is, presently, a level 9 human female priest. Almost level 10 though :P. And if you're wondering about the lack of screenshots, as I'm sure everyone's been, I've been looking at them as they come through. And they don't do the game justice. No screenshot ever does. You truly have to see it, heard it, and feel it to enjoy the experience that is WoW. The game looks pretty polished though, so maybe those November rumors might be more than just gossip. I know I can't wait. I'm not sure if this week will be pleasure or torture... prolly both.

~ FlareCDE





Archaedas: Ancient Stone Watcher
by DarknessCrusader 	September 2, 3:53 am
1781 Views
Advertisement

Now I've been in Uldaman on several different occassions, but I had yet to see it through to the end. For one reason or another, usually because of time restraints, whichever party I was in always quit before reaching the final boss. Not this time though!
After my party, ZeL (lvl.52 Mage), Gralin (lvl.43 Warlock), Buckette (lvl.51 Warrior), Salyn (lvl.48 Warrior), and I (lvl. 45 Shaman) where devastated by the giant spider in the Hinterlands, we wanted revenge! We had already killed the giants in Arathi though and wanted new challenging blood. Uldaman came to mind!

There's several giants in Uldaman. There's one that guards that back door, which is how we entered Uldaman for it is a major shortcut to the final boss. There's a giant Clay Golem that is fairly nasty on us casters, but we skipped him for we wanted bigger glory. And then there's the big man himself, Archaedas (lvl. 47+).

I'm skipping the rest of Uldaman because we skipped half of it and with the higher levels in our group, kinda blew through it all fairly quickly. Our main goal this day was to take down the forty-foot tall bossman.

Image 1We arrived to his chamber and Gralin and I were awed. We'd never been this far before and really didn't know what to expect. I'm sure you've heard the saying, 'A picture never compares to being there.' That's exactly how it felt! I've seen fpictures of Archaedas, but now I was there!

Image 2First off we had to summmon the giant to life. This took forever because it never wanted to work to completion. We tried it like a dozen times before it actually worked and the fight actually begun.

Image 3Buckette had us summon a friend of her's named Starflare (lvl.48 Warrior) to help in this fight for he didn't need the boss dead, but did need the quest in the next room. He went down fairly quickly though because I couldn't heal him for I couldn't see him. My main focus was on healing Buckette who was trying to solo the big-man while the rest of the party worried more on Archaedas' peons who came to life to help him.Image 4

Image 5Several of those smaller statues woke and were dispatched fairly easily. But when the bigger statues came to life, they where the ones who caused the problems. Two of them instantly aggro'd onto me and it was all I could do to run around in circles healing Buckette while she tried hard to kill Archaedas.

Finally I died, as did several others. All I really remember was Buckette and the big-man growing closer to death. Finally the boss went down and I used a soulstone Gralin had given me and the few of us alive worked on the remaining giant statues. It was kinda nasty, but the job got done! We had won!!!

The giant statue was no more and his secrets he was guarding were ours for the taking. Basicly in the next room you find out more than you ever wanted to know about Dwarves and got a quest to go to Thunder Bluff.

We left this giants tomb and headed our seperate ways from there...

-MaDnEsS, 'The Right Arm of Thrall'





Shadra the Way Too Big Spider!
by DarknessCrusader 	September 2, 3:06 am
2118 Views
Advertisement

Alright Arachnaphobia fans (shudder), have I gots a treat for you!
Image 1It all started as I was tryin' to get a party together for the end off the Rescue the Princess quest line in the Arathi Highlands. My good friend Gralin (lvl.42 Warlock) was eager to help out, as always, and so was my other good friend ZeL (lvl.52 Mage). Some of you testers might know ZeL since he's on just about 24/7 these days making constant Temple runs. Anyhow, I also got a guy who's always willing to help anybody who asks, Armageddon (lvl.55 Mage). We summoned him from Orgrimmar for the task. I also asked our local Xinhuan (lvl.55 Mage) to help also, but he had no interest in killing Myzreal at that time.
It took a little while to find a fifth, but finally Buckette (lvl.51 Warrior) accepted my request since she needed that quest also.

We went to Myzreal (lvl.50+ goddess) and kicked her booty. Thought I had a screenshot, but I guess not... sorry. We then helped Gralin through some of the earlier quests in that chain, which involves killing a 42+ roaming giant named Fazrok in Arathi.Image 2

Finally when all was said and done, we all said good-bye to the awesome Armageddon and where looking for something else to kill. We were in a giant killing mood! ZeL mentioned something about a giant spider needing killing in the Hinterlands which is just north of Arathi, so we where off! ZeL was the only one with this quest, so the rest of us had no idear what to expect. Buckette was the only other person to even travel within the Hinterlands. I had been there once, but since I had no quests and the mobs where higher level, I just turned around and left.

We made our way to some Troll spider worshipping temple called Shadra'Alor. Along the way Brunette got a friend of hers, Salyn (lvl.47 Warrior) to help us out.

Image 3We arrived, killed some trolls, killed some spiders, and made our way to the summoning altar. ZeL began the summoning, and things went downhill fast.

The giant spider Shadra (lvl.55+) woke and made her way to us. While she was coming, several large spiders caught us off-guard and attacked us. We took care of the giant spiders easily enough, but they did wear us down a little for Shadra!Image 4

Shadra finally was upon us and it was all I could do to keep any single member of our party alive. All I could do for about a minute anyways, but mana runs dry and several members died quicker than I could heal. After all was said and done, our party was completely destroyed and Shadra still had most of her health left.
Image 5We regrouped in hiding and ZeL asked our master craftsman associate, Stabstab (lvl.55 Rogue) for help. I've never heard Stabstab to decline helping anyone, so we summoned him and he was all too eager to help out.

The six of us where restored to maximum health and mana and ready to rumble! We charged! I'm not sure who went down first, even though my main job was as healer, but it didn't last very long. While running back to our corpses, we all decided we weren't ready for this encounter. Gralin and I were too low-level to be of any assistance and ZeL just needed better peoples in his party next time. We thanked Stabstab for trying to help and wished him farewell as the rest of us decided Uldaman in the Badlands was a much more suitable place for us to be. Off to Uldaman!

-MaDnEsS 'Right Arm of Thrall'





Hunters Journal - A to Z
by Wudster 	September 1, 10:32 pm
1746 Views
Advertisement

The Hunter – from A to Z.

It’s now a little more than 14 days since Blizzard released the so-called Hunter-patch. Since that I’ve been testing the Hunter, and I gotta admit: I’m in love :)
The hunters style of play is awesome, and that’s what I want to share with all of you.

The information is taken from my Night Elf Hunter, which at this time is level 29 and on it’s way to Stranglethorn Vale.

You start as level 1 ( surprise ) wearing an axe. This will and did confuse a lot of people. But as you see on the screenshot, you got both bow and axe equipped.Image 1
To actually use the bow, you need some arrows. You can buy those in all towns around the world. After that you need to drag it over in the little square to the right of the bow.Image 2
Until you get some spells, you’ll be using autoshoot. That’s the blue thing ( no. 3 ) as you see at the screenshot.

Now I’ll take my time to tell about some of the spells ( Those I use most ).
Bows/arrow spells:



Arcane shot:
This is basically the “damage” shot, like warriors got Mortal strike and so on. – It adds x damage to the arrow fired.

Serpent String:
Causes X damage over Y seconds at the target. – Normally I will start by using this, then followed by Arcane shot.

Concussive Shot:
Dazes the target and slows it 50% for 2 seconds. – Using this will cause the monster attack you. Nice way to save dying groupies.

This is so far those 3 bow spells I use. Normally, it’s Serpent string, followed by a Arcane shot.
Often this will cause the monster to attack you if you are solo’ing.

Then we got the traps. Until now, I’m only using one and that’s the Immolation trap. It causes
X damge over Z seconds. This combined with Serpent string can really cause much damage.
At this point I got to more traps. One of the is called Freezing trap. It will freeze the target in frost nova. Though any damage done to the target will brake the ice. This is good for running if you cant kill your target.
Last we got Frost trap. It will freeze the ground in 10 square yards, causing the enemy’s moving being very slow. Nice if you want to kill with ranged. Dosent last long though. This will affect all enemies in the affected area.
At a later point you will be able to learn the trap called Explosive trap, which will cause X damage once.

The Pet.
So, how do you get a pet? At level 10, you will get the ability called “Tame Pet”. You can only tame pets below or equal to your level. The pet will not exceed your level, which means it can maximum be level 15, if you are level 15. After you hit 16, the pet will get experince, just like you do. Image 3
As it is right now, your pet can only train growl ( level 2 ) right now. This is the same as taunt as the warrior got. It simple try to make the monsters hit the Pet, and keep aggro so you got the advance of using ranged weapons. ( this causes significant more damage than melee ). So your pets job is basically to keep the aggro. The damage caused by the pet dosent matter. It’s a very low rate.
In this push there’s no difference on the different pets you can get, and you cannot train them. So in this push, looks is everything :)




Hunters in groups:
So, why do you want to bring along a hunter in your group? I know why!
A Hunter is very good to pull if you don’t got a mage in the group. And even better, with the immolation traps, Serpent string and Arcane shot you actally deal out a lot of damage. Your pet can also take the hits for a while, so the other groupies dosent have worry.
The Hunter also got an awesome spell called “eyes of the beast”. With that spell, you can click where you want to see from ( See screenshots ).Image 4 With this, it’s no longer a gamble to walk around corners.


This is what I tell you so far. – Sorry for any grammar/spelling mistakes. I’m from Denmark.
Written for exclusively WorldofWar.net.

-Wudster






Rogue on the PvP Server
by Osiris 	August 31, 9:12 pm
2636 Views
Advertisement

This is not a strategy guide to being effective in PvP for a rogue in WoW. Rather, it is a journal of my experiences thus far on the PvP server.

I currently have a level 46 undead rogue on the PvP server. I am the Guild Master of a 30 person guild.

I have taken a mage to level 40 on the PvE server, so questing and navigation was a breeze. I have very limited time to play, but have managed to level relatively quickly.

I burned through every quest available from Deathknell through Silverpine. I finished Shadowfang Keep and was left with an empty quest log. I’m not a big fan of the quests in The Barrens. The Crossroads and Ratchet Quests in particular have you doing an insane amount of running around. I could have gained another 5 or so levels by doing so, but I was anxious to enter my first contested zone: Hillsbrad. I love the quests there.

At this point I am level 22 and am not very happy with the rogue. Poisons were a bit of a plus, but I was still weak compared to my mage. Instead of grinding by killing things 2 levels above me, I was killing things 2 levels below me. Hillsbrad quests require I find a group at level 22. It wasn’t hard. No horde wants to solo there if they can avoid it.

I made the long run from Silverpine to Tarren Mill with no alliance attacks. One thing that had me concerned was that I hadn’t spent an enormous amount of time making friends and trying to create my guild. I didn’t have dozens of allies in my friends list that I could call on for groups. It worked out. I knew the quests and areas like the back of my hand, so people were eager to quest with me over and over.

Long story short, I was killed by alliance about 30-40 times from levels 22-32. Most of this happened in front of the farm and by the yetis. I could have avoided about 10 of these deaths by simply running. Many of the people in my group were quick to fight back against overwhelming odds. This puts me in a situation where I have to fight too. I don’t want to be known as someone who doesn’t have the backs of his fellow hordemates.

Keep in mind, rogues have stealth. We can activate it when we’re not in combat, move at a MUCH slower rate and can stay stealthed as long as we perform no actions other than movement and chat. Stealth is worthless against someone 10 levels above you. At the time, it was worthless against people one level below you. You were a bright red slow moving target to them. To use it to escape hurts more than it helps.

Most of the alliance gankers I ran across in Hillsbrad were at least 10 levels higher than I. This is just before mages lost their invisibility, so it was very common to be bopping down the road and get one hit killed suddenly out of nowhere.

I was still avoiding pvp at this point. Since I have little time, leveling meant everything to me. I also had junk equipment as I already knew how hard it is to earn 100 gold for a mount before level 40.

Corpse camping wasn’t much of an issue. There is a very large area where you can recover your body. Know where the bad guy is, move far away, recover your body and run like the wind. I don’t think a lot of people get how simple this is from all the crying on the boards. It is possible to corpse camp someone if you have a large group. If 5-10 alliance made a large circle around my corpse, they could pin me indefinitely. I have had a few try, but they weren’t successful at covering the entire area. Corpse camping probably won’t be possible in live.

Tarren Mill is attacked almost every night on a pretty large scale. I have seen dozens of 50 vs. 50 battles and a few 100 vs. 100 battles. They are amazing. The lag for me was virtually non-existent. The alliance outnumbers the horde right now significantly. As much as I hate to admit it, I have seen a large alliance army corpse camp all of TM for an hour straight. However, I have also seen the horde get organized, win their town back and take the fight to the ridiculously nearby alliance town of Southshore. Fun stuff.

Next I moved on to the Arathi Highlands. I am also extremely fond of this area, but I found it MUCH harder to find a group. The result was my having to solo a lot of quests. Fortunately, this is possible to an extent. Many of these quests only require a partner and not a full group.

I was ganked a lot more often here. I avoided a lot of deaths because I wasn’t grouped with insane people suffering from a hormone overdose that compelled them to jump a level 50 alliance mage. The horde town here is Hammerfall which is in the northeast corner of the map. The alliance town is smack dab in the middle, so they were always in the vicinity of my quests.

In Hillsbrad there are a lot of high level players that like to pick on low level players. In Arathi, it’s more of a forced contention between equal leveled players. This is where I started learning the finer points of PvP. Unfortunately, without talents, the rogue is one of the worst. Leather armor, low HP, and horrible damage=dead every time (almost). I knew this going into rogue, but was optimistic of the new patch (I was right).

Being undead, I had a couple of advantages and disadvantages. It used to be possible to spend a few skill points at a survival trainer and learn track undead. Naturally, every alliance member has it. Whether you want to hunt me or avoid me, it’s a no brainer. Now only hunters can do this.

Another tough thing for undead is shackle undead. This is a priest spell that keeps us contained in chains for as much as 45 seconds unable to move or attack. If they attack us we’re no longer bound, but it was a guarantee for a priest that he would get the chance to regenerate his health and mana if ever jumped by an undead player. This doesn’t work so well now. They can still bind us, but while in combat you don’t regenerate anymore and can’t eat or drink. This is now a defensive spell for priests.

On the other hand, undead can’t be turned into sheep. It’s a pretty fair tradeoff. Undead can also breathe under water. I thought this would be a strong tactical move, but it’s really not. A paladin was chasing me the other day and I made him chase me deep into the water. When we hit bottom, I turned around and stunned him with a move called gouge. He didn’t make it back up. I won’t see this happen often. PvP usually ends so quickly someone is dead before I can get deep in the water.

At about level 35 I went to Grom’Grol and Booty Bay. Booty Bay is a neutral town but a contested area. It is INFESTED with high level alliance almost daily. It is very hard to avoid getting killed here.

This is a difficult time to level. I bounced around a lot between 4-5 different areas for ideal quests for my level. When I got to level 40, the new patch came out and rogues got their talents.

The tables turned. Instead of being the constant victim I became the vindicator. I’m not much of a ganker. When I sneak up on someone, it’s always someone who is within 2 levels of me either way. Gnomes really creep me out and mages were the bane of my existence, so I went on a bit of a gnome mage killing spree, but nothing too intense. So therapeutic!

Stealth became a viable tool. It feels so good to stand right on top of someone and not be seen. With the Master of Deception talent maxed, I have to stand right in front of someone of equal level to be seen. It’s not hard to sneak up on someone 3-5 levels above me if I’m careful.

I muscled my way to my current level (46). My guild is finally a reasonable size and I have spent quite a bit of time helping lower level guildmates do quests. I’m also escorting them through Hillsbrad, which has been fun.

Since I now have a mount, I have been spending a lot of money on improving my horrible equipment. I can’t begin to tell you how much of a difference that makes for a rogue. I’m working on a dagger and a chestplate that will boost me up significantly in PvP.

Right now, the classes I have the most problems with are warriors and paladins. When paladins get their talents they will be unstoppable. Both classes have a lot of armor and stun better than I do. My armor is low so they hit me like a truck.

A lot of people cry that there is no skill in PvP. Let me assure you that this is completely untrue. Battles end quickly, but doing the right things at the right time are key. I agree that it takes no skill to sneak up on someone when they are getting pounded by mobs, but PvP does require skill in straight-up battles.

As I said, equipment makes a difference. I have a chestpiece that has a chance to put a melee attacker to sleep for 30 seconds. It saved my life last night in Booty Bay. Three level 35-40 alliance attacked me and I was lucky that two of them took a nap when attacking me. I got all three of them. This chestpiece isn’t a particularly great choice. If I upgrade my equipment to give myself an additional 40 agility (very possible) I’d be MUCH more effective in PvP. My weapons are pretty weak too. I’m saving for something called Julie’s Dagger. It is 10 dps better than my existing dagger and will heal me for 60 damage every 12 seconds that I’m in combat. The heal isn’t so amazing, but the damage is.

Large scale PvP is the endgame. Huge 200 vs. 200 battles will be more common in live than they are now. My goal is to organize a huge lockdown on Stormwind. This won’t happen until months into live. The horde numbers simply don’t exist right now. The alliance has attacked the Undercity a few times. This is an easier target than Stormwind, but I’m very impressed on how well they did. The level 90 guards got the best of them but they did take a few down before it was over.

What I like most about the PvP server is the humility is bestows on your more chaotic juvenile player. In the barrens you see a lot of mindless abusive smack talking from kids who probably have never been a part of a true community game. The barrens is an uncontested area. They don’t have to worry about people watching their backs from attacking alliance. When they get to Hillsbrad attitudes adjust VERY quickly. They learn how important community is and how little of a factor anonymity is. I see very little BNET kiddie smack talking in contested zones.

Let’s face it, if you’re a jerk to me and I see you get attacked, I can go into stealth and save you a trip from the graveyard or I can hop on my wolf and ride into safety.

I really like the current PvP system. Outside of some balance changes, I hope Blizzard keeps it the way it is.








Rogue on the PvP Server
by Osiris 	August 31, 9:12 pm
2636 Views
Advertisement

This is not a strategy guide to being effective in PvP for a rogue in WoW. Rather, it is a journal of my experiences thus far on the PvP server.

I currently have a level 46 undead rogue on the PvP server. I am the Guild Master of a 30 person guild.

I have taken a mage to level 40 on the PvE server, so questing and navigation was a breeze. I have very limited time to play, but have managed to level relatively quickly.

I burned through every quest available from Deathknell through Silverpine. I finished Shadowfang Keep and was left with an empty quest log. I’m not a big fan of the quests in The Barrens. The Crossroads and Ratchet Quests in particular have you doing an insane amount of running around. I could have gained another 5 or so levels by doing so, but I was anxious to enter my first contested zone: Hillsbrad. I love the quests there.

At this point I am level 22 and am not very happy with the rogue. Poisons were a bit of a plus, but I was still weak compared to my mage. Instead of grinding by killing things 2 levels above me, I was killing things 2 levels below me. Hillsbrad quests require I find a group at level 22. It wasn’t hard. No horde wants to solo there if they can avoid it.

I made the long run from Silverpine to Tarren Mill with no alliance attacks. One thing that had me concerned was that I hadn’t spent an enormous amount of time making friends and trying to create my guild. I didn’t have dozens of allies in my friends list that I could call on for groups. It worked out. I knew the quests and areas like the back of my hand, so people were eager to quest with me over and over.

Long story short, I was killed by alliance about 30-40 times from levels 22-32. Most of this happened in front of the farm and by the yetis. I could have avoided about 10 of these deaths by simply running. Many of the people in my group were quick to fight back against overwhelming odds. This puts me in a situation where I have to fight too. I don’t want to be known as someone who doesn’t have the backs of his fellow hordemates.

Keep in mind, rogues have stealth. We can activate it when we’re not in combat, move at a MUCH slower rate and can stay stealthed as long as we perform no actions other than movement and chat. Stealth is worthless against someone 10 levels above you. At the time, it was worthless against people one level below you. You were a bright red slow moving target to them. To use it to escape hurts more than it helps.

Most of the alliance gankers I ran across in Hillsbrad were at least 10 levels higher than I. This is just before mages lost their invisibility, so it was very common to be bopping down the road and get one hit killed suddenly out of nowhere.

I was still avoiding pvp at this point. Since I have little time, leveling meant everything to me. I also had junk equipment as I already knew how hard it is to earn 100 gold for a mount before level 40.

Corpse camping wasn’t much of an issue. There is a very large area where you can recover your body. Know where the bad guy is, move far away, recover your body and run like the wind. I don’t think a lot of people get how simple this is from all the crying on the boards. It is possible to corpse camp someone if you have a large group. If 5-10 alliance made a large circle around my corpse, they could pin me indefinitely. I have had a few try, but they weren’t successful at covering the entire area. Corpse camping probably won’t be possible in live.

Tarren Mill is attacked almost every night on a pretty large scale. I have seen dozens of 50 vs. 50 battles and a few 100 vs. 100 battles. They are amazing. The lag for me was virtually non-existent. The alliance outnumbers the horde right now significantly. As much as I hate to admit it, I have seen a large alliance army corpse camp all of TM for an hour straight. However, I have also seen the horde get organized, win their town back and take the fight to the ridiculously nearby alliance town of Southshore. Fun stuff.

Next I moved on to the Arathi Highlands. I am also extremely fond of this area, but I found it MUCH harder to find a group. The result was my having to solo a lot of quests. Fortunately, this is possible to an extent. Many of these quests only require a partner and not a full group.

I was ganked a lot more often here. I avoided a lot of deaths because I wasn’t grouped with insane people suffering from a hormone overdose that compelled them to jump a level 50 alliance mage. The horde town here is Hammerfall which is in the northeast corner of the map. The alliance town is smack dab in the middle, so they were always in the vicinity of my quests.

In Hillsbrad there are a lot of high level players that like to pick on low level players. In Arathi, it’s more of a forced contention between equal leveled players. This is where I started learning the finer points of PvP. Unfortunately, without talents, the rogue is one of the worst. Leather armor, low HP, and horrible damage=dead every time (almost). I knew this going into rogue, but was optimistic of the new patch (I was right).

Being undead, I had a couple of advantages and disadvantages. It used to be possible to spend a few skill points at a survival trainer and learn track undead. Naturally, every alliance member has it. Whether you want to hunt me or avoid me, it’s a no brainer. Now only hunters can do this.

Another tough thing for undead is shackle undead. This is a priest spell that keeps us contained in chains for as much as 45 seconds unable to move or attack. If they attack us we’re no longer bound, but it was a guarantee for a priest that he would get the chance to regenerate his health and mana if ever jumped by an undead player. This doesn’t work so well now. They can still bind us, but while in combat you don’t regenerate anymore and can’t eat or drink. This is now a defensive spell for priests.

On the other hand, undead can’t be turned into sheep. It’s a pretty fair tradeoff. Undead can also breathe under water. I thought this would be a strong tactical move, but it’s really not. A paladin was chasing me the other day and I made him chase me deep into the water. When we hit bottom, I turned around and stunned him with a move called gouge. He didn’t make it back up. I won’t see this happen often. PvP usually ends so quickly someone is dead before I can get deep in the water.

At about level 35 I went to Grom’Grol and Booty Bay. Booty Bay is a neutral town but a contested area. It is INFESTED with high level alliance almost daily. It is very hard to avoid getting killed here.

This is a difficult time to level. I bounced around a lot between 4-5 different areas for ideal quests for my level. When I got to level 40, the new patch came out and rogues got their talents.

The tables turned. Instead of being the constant victim I became the vindicator. I’m not much of a ganker. When I sneak up on someone, it’s always someone who is within 2 levels of me either way. Gnomes really creep me out and mages were the bane of my existence, so I went on a bit of a gnome mage killing spree, but nothing too intense. So therapeutic!

Stealth became a viable tool. It feels so good to stand right on top of someone and not be seen. With the Master of Deception talent maxed, I have to stand right in front of someone of equal level to be seen. It’s not hard to sneak up on someone 3-5 levels above me if I’m careful.

I muscled my way to my current level (46). My guild is finally a reasonable size and I have spent quite a bit of time helping lower level guildmates do quests. I’m also escorting them through Hillsbrad, which has been fun.

Since I now have a mount, I have been spending a lot of money on improving my horrible equipment. I can’t begin to tell you how much of a difference that makes for a rogue. I’m working on a dagger and a chestplate that will boost me up significantly in PvP.

Right now, the classes I have the most problems with are warriors and paladins. When paladins get their talents they will be unstoppable. Both classes have a lot of armor and stun better than I do. My armor is low so they hit me like a truck.

A lot of people cry that there is no skill in PvP. Let me assure you that this is completely untrue. Battles end quickly, but doing the right things at the right time are key. I agree that it takes no skill to sneak up on someone when they are getting pounded by mobs, but PvP does require skill in straight-up battles.

As I said, equipment makes a difference. I have a chestpiece that has a chance to put a melee attacker to sleep for 30 seconds. It saved my life last night in Booty Bay. Three level 35-40 alliance attacked me and I was lucky that two of them took a nap when attacking me. I got all three of them. This chestpiece isn’t a particularly great choice. If I upgrade my equipment to give myself an additional 40 agility (very possible) I’d be MUCH more effective in PvP. My weapons are pretty weak too. I’m saving for something called Julie’s Dagger. It is 10 dps better than my existing dagger and will heal me for 60 damage every 12 seconds that I’m in combat. The heal isn’t so amazing, but the damage is.

Large scale PvP is the endgame. Huge 200 vs. 200 battles will be more common in live than they are now. My goal is to organize a huge lockdown on Stormwind. This won’t happen until months into live. The horde numbers simply don’t exist right now. The alliance has attacked the Undercity a few times. This is an easier target than Stormwind, but I’m very impressed on how well they did. The level 90 guards got the best of them but they did take a few down before it was over.

What I like most about the PvP server is the humility is bestows on your more chaotic juvenile player. In the barrens you see a lot of mindless abusive smack talking from kids who probably have never been a part of a true community game. The barrens is an uncontested area. They don’t have to worry about people watching their backs from attacking alliance. When they get to Hillsbrad attitudes adjust VERY quickly. They learn how important community is and how little of a factor anonymity is. I see very little BNET kiddie smack talking in contested zones.

Let’s face it, if you’re a jerk to me and I see you get attacked, I can go into stealth and save you a trip from the graveyard or I can hop on my wolf and ride into safety.

I really like the current PvP system. Outside of some balance changes, I hope Blizzard keeps it the way it is.






Mount vs. Travel Form
by DarknessCrusader 	August 31, 3:41 am
2292 Views
Advertisement

After getting my mount and testing it out all weekend long, I'm fairly disapaointed in it. Don't get me wrong, I love my purple raptor and I will use it constantly, but not only are there many bugs left to work out with mounts, there's also times when travel-form (TF) is so much better.

Image 1First off, you can not cast spells or do trades while on a mount, even such things as collecting herbs and starting fires which you can do while in TF. So if you're in an area abundant with herbs, you might go with TF over mount.

Also, except for the main capitol cities, the other capitols do not support mounts. So if you're wanting to run around in UnderCity for awhile, TF is the only way to go. Also some other places don't support the mounts like on top of the zep towers and inside some places. You cannot talk to NPCs on a mount (or TF) either.

You cannot fight at all on a mount. You can fight with a handicap in TF, but not at all on mount. Also, you cannot summon your mount in combat. You can turn into your TF and either run away or chase your opponent, but no mounting.

And finally you have all the bugs. You constantly get dismounted while travelling. You get a message saying 'You dismount before continueing.' This happens ALOT! I've been beat to destinations by players in TF because I'm constantly having to summon my mount after dismounting. This has to be a bug in my opinion and will hopefully get worked out.Image 2

Another bug I've found is occassionally you'll get stuck on your mount. This has happened to me twice so far and is very annoying. The first time I went into combat and couldn't fight back because I was mounted. I finally dismounted as I died. The second time I was running late to work because I was stuck in Orgrimmar on my raptor and the game won't let you log-off or quit while mounted (though you can in TF). I was stuck for around an hour before finally I dismounted and my game crashed. Mounts also cause more lag... this isn't too noticable, but in some places, like Orgrimmar, it definitely doesn't help.

Image 3Oh! And one last freaky thing about the mount is occassionally you'll stand up on your mount. When this happens you act like you're just standing around and will go through all the impatient things you character normally goes through while just standing around. This is nothing major, but the only way I've found to sit back down is to dismount and resummon your mount.Image 4

So for all you Shamans and Druids out there thinking your TF is a waste once you turn level 40, believe me, it's not! I use my mount ALOT, but I still use TF just as much!

Image 5-DC a.k.a. MaDnEsS 'The Right Arm of Thrall'




A tastey shell of a class
by Essex 	August 27, 1:05 am
2878 Views
Advertisement

Alright I’m not very good at these journals, in fact that’s why I haven’t written one yet but I thought I would take a stab at it.

With the latest patch came a lot of bugs, some problems, some server instability, things like that. A lot of people moaned and groaned and cried but I am not one of them. I’ve wanted to play a hunter for a long time now and I finally get the chance to do that just that!

Now I’m an alliance guy, I take that back, I’m a Night Elf guy. If they up and changed sides and I lost all my guild I wouldn’t care I’m a night elf to the core. So I of course picked a night elf first.

Now there were about 152 hunters in the Night Elf starting zone the day I made my first hunter. So it took a little while to get done with things and the entire time I was there the server was crashing and sometimes no more mobs were spawning.. it was kinda funny actually.

However after a while I finally got started. Currently my hunter is a level 16 a female named Nolasha. I chose the female NE because the male night elf looks stupid when shooting the bow… he kinda holds it “gangsta” style and seems to have problems pulling back the string… also right now with auto shot there is some animation problems which is making it where you don’t pull the bow string back after the first shot the arrows just magically fly out. Well with the males this made it look like the arrows were flying from his midsection, at least the female NE motion looks like how you would actually fire a bow, and it has a little bit of it’s auto shot animation and doesn’t look as dorky. Besides I’ll always have the idea of a Sentinel in my head and there were no male Sentinels!

Ok enough ranting so I hit level 10 and could finally get a pet. My first pet was again sticking with the Sentinel tradition an owl. I loved the owl I named him Essex. Currently pets can only learn one ability but more will be implemented in the months to come. The one ability they can learn is important though its growl which acts basically like a warrior taunt.
Image 1
Pets currently aren’t doing a lot of damage but that may be a bug. All pets are hitting for 4-5 damage per attack despite what is listed in their character sheet. Pets also run off of happiness. If an animal is unhappy it will do 69% of it’s listed damage, if it’s content it will do 100% and if it’s happy it will do 125% right now it seems as if all our pets could use some Prozac cause none of them are getting out of the unhappy damage range no matter how much we feed them.

But pets are doing one thing well holding aggro. The rank 2 growl (which can be taught at pet level 10) holds them in place for the most part. By the time a monster decides to attack you it’s gonna be dead before it reaches you.

So what are we attacking with? Right now I have four attacks, the aforementioned auto-shot, Serpent sting which is a nature dot, arcane shot a dd nuke sort of ability that adds additional damage on top of a normal arrow, concussion shot which dazes a mob for two seconds allowing us to get a few more shots off.

Eventually there are more abilities but that’s all I got for now. I also just have one trap immolation which does what is sounds like burns a mob that runs on it for 125 damage over time.

The hunter, for me, is a blast to play! I love the pets, especially my current wolf one. I hated to give up my owl but I had to since he wouldn’t go in the stable and would get in my way when I tried to target mobs. The wolf adds a bit more flavor anyway as when I’m just standing there he’ll sometimes sniff the ground, scratch his ears, or let out a lonely howl.

Image 2
The hunter in it’s current form is a shell of a class since our most important aspect…oh yeah forgot about them but I only have two monkey and hawk monkey allows me to dodge an extra 8% of the time and hawk increases my ranged power by 20. Anyway our most important aspects, the pets, aren’t fully fleshed out yet nor do we have talents. If I’m having this much fun with a shell of a class I can’t wait till I can get to the rest of it.




World of Warcraft Beta Tester	Unlikely Allies
by Nojin 	August 1, 12:56 pm
4026 Views
Advertisement

Troll and Dwarves, mortal enemies. During the 1920’s, Trolls broke many barrels of alcohol. Dwarves could not retaliate, as the Trolls were acting under the prohibition laws. Over the years, however, Blizzard nerfed those laws. Though ever since, Dwarves have had a burning hatred for the Trolls.

Yet this day (the 30th of July) was different. My level 37 Troll Mage (Nojinx) exited Booty Bay, a neutral town on the southern tip of Stranglethorn Vale, a mostly Alliance inhabited zone. And as I exited, I saw a Dwarf running from a couple Elder Mistvale Gorillas. I had a quest in the same area, so I decided to help.


Quest: Scaring Shaky
If there's one thing I can't stand, it's people who don't pay their gambling debts! And there are a lot of people who owe me. Think you can help me collect?

First, there's 'Shaky' Phillipe down by the docks. He owes me plenty after last week's game and I want my due! But to get it, we'll have to scare him.

Go out of town and hunt Elder Mistvale Gorillas. Find a nice selection of giblets, then take them to Shaky. Don't let on that they're from an animal; let him think the worst.


I casted Fireball on one of the two Gorillas that was chasing Azureus, the level 35 Dwarven Mage. I took it down rather easily, as Azureus had brought him close to death. The other was easy as well, after Azureus casted Frost Nova to freeze him in place. We both casted our Fireballs on him, killing the second and final Gorilla chasing him. We both waved at each other, then sat to drink our conjured water and eat our conjured food.

Trolls speak only Orcish and Trollish, and Dwarves speak only Common and Dwarvish. We couldn’t communicate to each other, but I’m sure he would have thanked me. Instead, we both said, simply... ^_^

We both started attacking different Elder Mistvale Gorillas. However, he had complications again. Elder Mistvale Gorillas were five levels higher than him, so they often resisted his spells. I started attacking his, instead of my own. Another aggroed onto me, then another aggroed onto him. We finished one off, but still had a train of three tailing us.

We ended up running far enough away to lose them. Again we sat down together, drinking and eating... but I think this time we had reached an agreement... we would help each other. I ran close enough to cast my Pyroblast on one of the Elder Mistvale Gorillas, and he followed closely behind. Once I got off my first shot to tag the Gorilla, he casted Frost Bolt. We both combined our forces to take down the Gorilla pretty fast. I had earned my second of the quest items (Mistvale Giblet), so I said “1/5.” It was then his turn... so he started casting Pyroblast on another Elder Mistvale Gorilla, and I would cast Frostbolt and Fireball on it to help out.

Image 1This continued for quite some time, and worked out remarkably well. Whenever one of us would get a quest item, we would say “1/5” for example. Once when he was curious as to how many I had, he sayd “?/5”, so I answered “3/5” (hadn’t changed from the last time I said it), so he replied with a smiley face... >.<

Because of the language barrier, we had to come up with silly ways to communicate. I just said “\/\/007” (woot), “101” (lol) and “l337”, but he said “$0|2|2o” (the o was meant to be a y, as in sorry, but it was changed to an o), “|37$ |_34\/3” (lets leave) and “90$|_|” (gosu). We also used emotes. /point was useful, /hug was good too. :)

There was one point where the communication and area of affect were a real problem. I couldn’t say “AFK” to him when I had to answer the door quickly, so I just did /afk. I didn’t know if this shows up for the opposing faction or not, but I was hoping. I answered the door (just had to let someone in quick) and came back, and he was being chased by two Elder Mistvale Gorillas. In my stupidity, I casted Frost Nova (I was hoping he was out of range). I ended up freezing the Elder Mistvale Gorilla and Azureus in place right next to each other. I tried killing it before Azureus died, but it didn’t work out.

Thankfully, the graveyard is very close to where we were. Another good thing is that the 2 minute penalty does not apply when you die against monsters. So he respawned quickly, I said “$0|2|2y >_<“ and he replied with ^_^ .

Actually, with those two kills I leveled to 38. He noticed, saying “37 --------> 38 :)!!” and clapped for me. I replied with the usual ^_^ .

Just after that, we both finished up the quest. We headed off to 'Shaky' Phillipe at Booty Bay. Along the way we came across other Alliance. I would see him saying jibberish (what Common shows up to me), most likely saying “Don’t attack him.” We stopped at 'Shaky' Phillipe, soon after I got shot in the back with lightning. I didn’t move, I was hoping Azureus would be able to convince them to stop. I casted up Mana Shield... I saw him yelling at them... I ended up jumping off the dock, but it was too late--I had died.

Image 2Because of a bug (as you see in the screenshot, the “release” button did not pop up) I had to log out and log back in. Additionally, I had to wait the full 2 minute penalty when I did log back in.

Finally back to my corpse, I ran off to complete the next part of the quest in town. I ran into Azureus as well... he led me to where I needed to go. I started reading the NPC quest, but a large group of Alliance gathered around me. Looked as if they were ready to ambush me at any second (I could tell they had no reason to be in the room other than to gawk at me). But it seemed he convinced them not to. Soon after the message popped up that the server was restarting in five minutes, we were off. We waved goodbye to each other, and that’s the last I’ve seen of him since.








