Balance in WoW
Written by Johnny Gunho (johnnygunho@hotmail.com)

Starcraft, one of the best games ever, mostly due to its balance? Balance, balance, it's all about balance !! This is single most important thingfor a Role-Playing Game, or any video game, in my opinion. What makes Starcraft so popular ?? You guessed it, balance. The fact that there is no distinct advantage between the 3 races forces players to be creative and develop strategies, and counter-strategies. Several years after the game has been released, gamers are still discussing strategies, new and old. This even playing field is the reason why that old Starcraft : Brood War CD still gets used, while other newer CDs are collecting dust somewhere in the back of closet.

On the other hand, where Starcraft is embraced for its excellent balance, Diablo 2 falls to its knees. Don't get me wrong, Diablo 2 is a great game. But its full potential can never be reached because it fails in every aspect relating to balance. The skills, the characters, the items, areas, and even the monsters are all out of whack. Does anyone else remember previews of a game which featured 5 balanced classeseach with 30 viable and balanced skills ? And the items, don't even get me started on the items !! I only have to mention one item to express my point here. "Buriza". I appreciate Blizzard's attempt to make items more exciting and varied. You've all heard the quote "Bigger isn't necessarily always better.", in this case, Bigger isn't necessarily funnier. Blizzard needs to realize this. Once the items become so powerful, they begin to take over the character. Players who have this weapon are no longer player Bowazons, they're playing the Buriza. Variety between items is good, but "Godly" properties on items blow everything out of proportion. Now look at the areas and monsters. This one baffles me. Many areas in act 5 are a joke. I don't know how Blizzard failed to see these Bloody Runs coming. I've said it before, and I'll say it again. Diablo 2 has just become a huge Magic-Finding and Leveling fiasco.

Amazon from Diablo 2, that really got too powerful with the expansion. Now, I know Diablo 2 isn't Starcraft. Diablo 2 is an entirely different genre and has many more variables so asking for perfect balance like in Starcraft might be too much. Regardless, I still think they could have done a much better job. Obviously not right away, but that's what patches are for. However, through all this, Diablo 2 boasts very addictive gameplay and near-infinite possibilities that keep you coming back for more.

In conclusion, how well WoW is balanced will be the deciding factor in whether it reaches the top or not. I have confidence in Blizzard, but it won't be easy. They're adding different races and possibly more character classes. While this adds variety and depth, it also makes it more difficult to achieve a good balance. Blizzard must keeping things well proportioned or else we'll just get another, better looking expansion for Diablo 2.





New Battle System Analysis
Written by TorN on October 3 2001.

Welcome to our first article! We really hope you will enjoy your time reading it, because we have some interesting facts for any WoW fan.

Since the first day the gameplay preview was released, I couldn't keep myself from watching it quite often. Up to now, it has been very useful to add some unofficial information about what WoW will look like. Recently, after having watched it even more carefully, something attracted my attention near the end of the gameplay preview.

Here's what the scene is all about: some type of fighter, with long blond hair, is attacking what seems to be a skeleton. In this 2 seconds section of the movie, we can clearly see 2 very interesting things, that will answer a few frequently asked questions about battles.


First of all, the final blow against the skeleton has cut it in two parts! Even in its early phase, the game is already showing advanced spells and battles special effects! The fact that an enemy can be cut in 2 parts once it dies is interesting because it means it can also be cut about anywhere on the body. This means, that if your final blow has hit your enemy's head, the head will probably just be thrown away, leaving a decapitated body falling at your feet and the head just ahead. Isn't that realism?

However, we are not sure if this effect will also take place if the one who dies is a player. So, this may only work on enemy NPCs. But that's not the only interesting thing we can see in this scene. The other thing is very curious but it can tell us a lot about how battles will work.

As we can see on the small screenshot, a "12" written in white appeared when the knight hit the skeleton. You are now realizing what this small detail means? Indeed, this could mean that every time you hurt an opponent, the amount of damage you did is revealed. This explain much about how battle and death will be : each character have their definite initial amount of HP. Then, each player will be swinging their weapon in direction of his respective opponent. Attack speed will probably be depending on skills and/or magic affecting the player. And let's say player #1 hits his enemy; a number, in small white characters, will show how many HP the other fighter has lost. But it is still unsure if other players will be able to see that number, but my guess is that the player receiving the damage will see it, in another color (probably red or orange).

Finally, I would just like to add that, as the game is still in its early stages, we cannot be completely certain about how everything will be. This will only be revealed as the game development advances. However, such facts, coming from the official gameplay movie, are good indications about what we will see in the final release. Anyway, we will be covering more subjects concerning the game when more information about it will be available. So expect to see more articles in the near future!

(We will also publish any interesting article you, WoW fans, send us. Simply email your article here)






Computer Gaming World Preview first look
Written by TorN on October 5 2001.

Before even saying a word about this excellent article, I would just like to take some time, and ask you to run or drive to your closest magazines dealer and get yourself a copy of this awesome issue of CGW. :)

In this CGW, November issue, a 10 pages preview was written by a very cool and friendly guy, Jeff Green, editor at CGW. Revealing a lot of extremely interesting facts about WoW and its development, the article contains some very nice screenshots from the game. I will list here only some new information about the game, as I also want you to have the opportunity to learn more things from Jeff Green's preview. Even if all this information is also available in his respective section in the website, I thought it was interesting to put them all in one article.

- First of all, why not starting by telling you some of things you don't wish to see in the game? Load times should be completely absent. In fact, it should work about the same way it worked in Diablo II. For those who haven't played Diablo II, let me explain you : once you're in the world, you can move your character wherever you want. When you arrive between two areas, if you have a decent computer, all you can hear is your hard drive working for less than a second. The game kept almost all of its fluidity during this period. Blizzard should even have improve this by the time the game is out.

- Then, many of you didn't want to see the next thing, as this was very annoying in EQ : camping near monsters spawn points. Rejoice! :) Blizzard, by some smart technique, should make monster spawning in a way that prevents camping.

- The next one is for action seekers : according to CGW, the game should be action-filled and you shouldn't have to "seek" too long to enter a battle.

- One thing that has been already announced : eating and drinking will not be vital. However, food and drink will help you recover your lost HP.

- Finally, some other annoying thing, especially for newbie characters, will be, for the pleasure of everyone, absent from WoW : once you have created your character, there won't be any lame animals NPCs such as rats, rabbit, birds or even deers to kill. Way to go Blizzard!

Now, we enter the part of this article where I will mention what you always wanted to see in WoW :

- A lot of people were asking about tattoos in the official forum. Well, these guys will not be disappointed to learn that there will be tattoos! At the character creation, you will be able to choose from a wide range of tattoos the one (we don't know if you will be able to choose more than one yet) you want, and place it at a pre-determined place on the body. The article doesn't mention if you will be able to get other tattoo once in the game, but I guess we will; Blizzard is really thinking about everything.

- For those requesting some grouped activities, you will be satisfied. Even more if you like to play as a mage; some spells will require more than one mage to work correctly. From an example, also found inside the great WoW preview featured into the November issue of CGW, there will be some kind of portal leading to a specific area using this innovative method of spell casting.

- For the pleasure of FPS-ers, a first person view will be available in the game. The more I learn about what will WoW be like, the more I think it will be long until we see this title on the shelves. But at least, it will be, without any doubts, one of the best, if not THE best, game of all times.

- For the people against violence, playing this game will also be fun. In fact, acquiring experience will not only be done by killing monsters. Quests, trade skills, helping other players and adventuring deeper into WoW lands should also reward your hero.

- As the last feature of this article, for those who are worried about the ability to bind to a location, be reassured : everyone, even the most dumb non-magic user classes will be able to bind to a location as this is an important gaming aspect in WoW.

So, you still haven't bought the CGW, do you? Yes you did, because you are a true WoW fan and that this article is REALLY worth reading. Even if you have the magazine just next to your monitor, so that you can read it another time before you go to sleep, maybe you don't have a scanner and would like to have some of the images digitalized. Because warcraftcentral.com cares about you, we have added some of them to the different sections of the site. But for your convenience, you can find them all together on this page. :)

My last words on this article go to Jeff Green and all the CGW staff, for allowing us to give you more information about WoW, information coming from their newest issue. A big "thank you" guys.







ow to make unique items really unique
Written by TorN on November 18 2001.

Unique items can be really unique in a MMORPG. They only have to generate a name & stats depending on the type of item:

Let's say there are 23 kinds of weapons: dagger, short sword, long sword, 2-h sword, scimitar, sabre, katana, short axe, double axe, broad axe, battle axe, pike, club, morning star, short bow, long bow, crossbow, staff, halberd, heavy crossbow, mace, war hammer.

And at least 100 prefixes and 100 suffixes. That is already 10 000 different possible combination of prefix/suffix. There could be much more prefixes and suffixes, depending on how many unique items you want. 100x100 was only an example to show how many possibilities there are with so few different prefixes/suffixes. And those do not even have to be linked to the item's characteristics! We could also split those 100x100 into every kind of items: that would mean each kind of weapon would have about 435 different unique! That way, an axe and a sword couldn't have the same prefix/suffix...

Now, about the characteristics, it is quite easy to avoid dupes: when a fairly powerful weapon is dropped, its stats are logged and the possibility is eliminated from the randomly generated stats.

Sure, maybe more players will be interested in having a magic sword than a magic dagger, as in most of the games... but if all weapons have their advantages/disadvantages (this can be related to races/classes too), it won't be as critical. And it will force players to use different kind of weapons. If they absolutely want a sword, they'll have to use a normal one until they can find a way to get a magical one.

If a player gets "Avatar's long sword of death", the whole server isn't immediately aware of it. Even if the sword is the most powerful one on the server at that moment!... Many people will simply never hear about it, and amongst the ones who do, many will not be interested enough to try killing the player anyway (that's for if players can be looted). Sure, maybe a few people will try to buy it... and it's the owner choice to sell it or not. And because of the balance, gold will really be worth something (hum... I hope...), it can buy anything, considering you have enough of it :) .

Assuming the server has 3000 players, why would *only* 10 000 prefixes/suffixes combination possibilities be enough (that's 230 000 different item names -I consider this already being too high-)? Because those uniques would be the best weapons available. I think Blizzard should put emphasis on characters and skills, not on items. Commonly used items should NOT be uniques or very powerful; they should be of normal or good quality. Maybe the average players could have one with some minor magic features.

Now, I'm not saying WoW should be some sort of "items quest". But it should be balanced. I think it's not fun (and particularly in *MMO*RPG) being able to get a very powerful weapon not long after you started playing. It kills the game because the only challenge left is to find a better weapon (killing monsters is way too easy). Now, in WoW, goal of the game shouldn't be to keep looking for a good weapon (keep in mind that when I mention "weapon", I mean any piece of equipment). There should be enough (and diverse) other actions to do.

For example, in UO, it was quite difficult to get a magic weapon. It was even tougher to get a kick ass weapon (good weapons were considered high quality ones). Why? because the game wasn't focusing on items! Was the game boring? NO! You had plenty of other things to do than just looking for a better weapon. You could go on a treasure hunt (was extremely cool!), go on a quest, explore a new dungeon, mine some ore to craft a new set of armor (and get some experience in those trading skills), try selling your goods, explore new lands, buy some furniture for your house, hunt a bunch of orcs with your team, chat with people (RP) and of course, kick some evil butts...

But, of course, if the game is focused on items, it is almost impossible to have true unique items. Unless if they are sold to NPCs, they can be dropped again by a monster... I really hope this won't happen, but... we never know...

Anyway, I could add some more points, but I think it's already long enough... :) You can reply to this article in the forums.







Chat Break Down
Written by Chancelor on October 28 2002.

So the chat is over, and the transcript has been posted. What terror will ensue in the aftermath of such a great occasion for this game? What I'm here to do for you today is break this chat down, and discuss various intriguing sections, and maybe do a bit of guesswork on what's to come. Specifically, I'll be focusing on instances, guild support, monster AI, mounts, and rituals. So without further adieu… here we go!

Instances
The idea of instances came up in the chat when the questions involving player camping were addressed. For those of you that have not read the transcript, instancing is where a group of friends enters their own private instance of that section of the world. For obvious reasons this idea certainly has it's up sides. For example being able to hunt in a peaceful environment without hassle, or being able to complete a camped quest.

However, this idea has raised many questions. If you enter an instance as a group, what's stopping you from dis-allying your group and stabbing them in the back? How big will the instance be? This method may cause bugs that might allow manipulating the system, how will this be dealt with? How will you end the instance?

With the amount of problems this might cause, would this really be beneficial? In my opinion, yes, but some people may disagree. I consider myself to be a hardcore gamer, and I have been extremely frustrated in the past with various groups camping quests, and instancing could have really helped me out then, but I've also been extremely annoyed as of late with backstabbers and people that manipulate the system. So the answer is up to you, what do you think is more beneficial?

Guild Support
Guild support is one out of the many many things that distinguishes an MMOG from any other game. The communities in MMOGs today are very strong, and that's what makes the game fun a lot of the time. Personally, I'm all for making guilds as big a part of the game as can be, but a lot of people out there like to go solo. To each his own, I say, so as long as it does not become mandatory to become part of a guild, all the features such as a guild hall, a guild emblem, and a strong guild governing service, which were all mentioned in the chat, will be welcomed by this gamer.

Monster AI
One of the many things that got me angry about Dark Age of Camelot, was the seemingly randomness of monsters that were placed around the map. They weren't guarding anything, or patrolling anything in particular, but rather just waiting around for you to come by so that they can randomly pounce at you with no rhyme or reason. This is something I do not want to see in World of Warcraft, and the chat made it very clear that such a system will not be in place. The idea of monsters having a purpose to serve in the world is very appealing. Leaders of baddies will be directing their group around to ensure even less randomness. This is probably one of the top five things that I can't wait to see out of World of Warcraft.

Mounts
I have yet to play too many MMOGs myself, Dark Age of Camelot was my first, and some of you may know what a nightmare transportation was in that game. All we had was horses! Horses that we couldn't even control! Right now, the idea of sprinting down a road on my horse, or wizzing through the air with my Zeppelin is so appealing that….that….I don't know! It's just so damn appealing. I just hope Blizzard makes them fast. Fast is good.

Rituals (Multi-User Spells)
So far this is the coolest feature of World of Warcraft I have yet to see. I'd just love to see a couple dark mages summoning up an incredible attack during a skirmish with a group of white mages. The sky turning black with their power, but overran by the power of the light. But what sort of PvP problems might this system cause? There has to be some sort of balancing of the rituals, some of them might become so powerful that a score of low levels could be flatten in a matter of seconds by some high level ritual. This might also cause problems for hunters, seeing all of their would be prey falling to the ground in a matter of seconds might be quite discouraging! But…that's where instancing comes in…gee, I think Blizzard's thought of everything…or have they?

Well there's a few of my takes on the chat that went on on that fateful October day… If you think that I've missed something, or you think that there might be something I've failed to mention or think about concerning these topics, send me an e-mail here: jason@fry1.net, and I'll put them together in another article. (Credit will be given accordingly) 






Unlock the MMO World
Written by JimB on November 20 2002.

Courtesy of WoW Revolutions

As for me. I returned to this world to ensure that there would be a future, to teach the world that it no longer needs guardians. The hope for future generations has always resided in mortal hands. -Medivh

What better way to start off a guide to the MMO world than to learn what an MMO is. An MMORPG or Massively Multiplayer Online Roleplaying Game, is a persistant world. MMOs are divided into "Realms". (Also know as Shards or Servers) Every Realm is pysically composed of one or multiple servers. A server, in basic terms, is a computer that hosts the game. Within every Realm is a Persistant World State (PWS for short). What this means is that within each Realm is a world. In our case, a World of Warcraft. Users connect to these Realms, and an Avatar (character) is created. Hundreds of users interact within each of these "Realms" putting the Massive in Multiplayer. Raph Koster and Rich Vogel (Lead Developers of Starwars: Galaxies), professional MMO developers, address the difference between your typical game and one of the MMO genre:

    The content in these games have to last from 6 to 12 months for the average player
    The average life-span of these games is around 5 years
    It is not fire and forget software. The software must be scalable and maintainable for years.
    Client/Server Architecture
    Supporting thousands of players instead of a few
    Environments are huge
    It is a service not a product

Let's look at these shall we?

The content in these games have to last from 6 to 12 months for the average player

MMORPGs, in general, larger, more complex, and require more content than your typical RPG. In an RPG, you travel around the land, saving the world, being the hero, for 20-60 hours. With multiplayer components, many more. In Diablo 2 you could spend hundreds of hours in multiplayers, MMORPGs need to have a large amount of content to keep people amazed, so they will keep paying for it monthly. To do this, leveling is usually slower, and the worlds are much larger. A hard-time leveling keeps players (you guys) attempting to achieve the next level or spell. A large world and lots of content keep people exploring.

The average life-span of these games is around 5 years

MMOs last much longer than most games. I myself know serveral people who played in the Ultima Online beta (1997) and still play UO even now. Many people have become so addicted to Everquest that it is now known to many as "Evercrack" due to its addictiveness.

It is not fire and forget software. The software must be scalable and maintainable for years.

Unlike RPGs, MMOs are not developed for one-time retail sales. MMOs are developed to last many many years. They aren't sold to be a one-time adventure, they are sold to be a year+ game for a monthly fee.

Client/Server Architecture

MMOs are not designed like single player games, they are designed with unique architectures. You can read more about Client/Server Architecture here.

Environments are huge

Compared to other RPG worlds, MMO worlds are huge. Often new players will be lost within an area (Also know As "Zone) for and hour or two, looking for their cities. The easiest way to facilitate such large areas is transportation. The more easy to find transport there is, the more time players can spend in-game without looking for where to go. Blizzard is intending to facilitate this with multiple modes of transportation. Including teleportation scrolls and aerial transport.

It is a service not a product

When you pay monthly for an MMO, you aren't paying for a piece of software. Instead, when you pay for an MMO, you are paying for constant content updates, quality customer service, and balance-changes.


A veteran MMO player will tell you from their experience what an MMO truly is. To their core, MMORPGs, like many other RPGs, are all about achievement. Unlike adventure-driven games, most MMOs are about getting the next item, or hitting the next level. Some MMOs, like Shadowbane or Lineage, are based around PVP (Player Versus Player) Combat. Tabula Rasa, a game being developed by NCSoft, promises to be based around the quest instead of the achievement of the quest. Bill Roper, Vice President of Blizzard had this to say,
br> I think the other big point is that we want to make sure that people can get on and have some kind of meaningful play experience in a short amount of time. I have a level 50 character right now in Dark Age that I have to know that I'm going to be sitting down for a couple hours before I load him up, because there is nothing left for me to do at that level that takes a small amount of time. And I think that is really the way the games are built. There's nothing wrong with that, but I think there are different paths you can take, as well, that World of Warcraft is focused on. Even if you are a top-level player, you can get online and do something that would mean something to your character. Not get on for 30mins and try to find a group and spend all the time sitting around. There are a lot of ideas going around about how we make the game not only a fun experience for people who are thought of as the "classic massively multiplayer users" where the guy goes on for six, eight, twelve hours straight every night, but also somebody who, on their lunch break, wants to get on and do something with their character. Saying, "Hey, I only have an hour or two a night to play, and I don't want to feel like I'm being left in the dust by everyone else. I want to move my character on at a good pace." I think those are a couple areas that we are really focused on that we feel will separate us out.

It seems that Blizzard has an idea to alter that ideal of "levelfests". Another comment in PCGamer was that player crafted items will be stronger than ones discovered in the wild. Enriching the experience for "crafters" as well, that however is a story for another day. 







Cheating in WoW
Written by JimB on November 20 2002.

Courtesy of WoW Revolutions

Cheating in the World of Warcraft

The primary concern of Blizzard fanatics, new to the MMO genre, is cheating. Let's face it, every Blizzard game with an online component so far has been hacked. The most notorious, Diablo, had a number of hacks including Town kills, duping, and character manipulation. Starcraft had map hacks. Diablo 2 had dupe bugs. And even 30 days after release, Warcraft 3 had map hacks and supposedly a drop hack. So, as you can imagine, Blizzard players have a right to worry about paying monthly for a game that may be ruined by a hack. An article from Arena.net explains the client/server architecture of MMOs.

    As you can imagine, setting up a hosted environment is both challenging and expensive. Depending on the popularity of the game, it may involve purchasing hundreds of computers, and operating them in data centers around the world. In addition to buying all the computers and hiring a staff to keep them all running, the game publisher must also pay for all of the bandwidth that they use. Despite the effort and expense, the industry is moving more and more in this direction, because it's the only way to approach the ideal of a cheat-free environment. Examples of games that use a hosted client/server architecture include Diablo II, EverQuest, Ultima Online, Asheron's Call, and Dark Age of Camelot.


    Even when the game developer uses a well-written client/server networking model and controls all of the servers, it is still possible for cheating to occur, simply because games are written by humans, and human programmers will always make subtle mistakes that malicious users can exploit.


    The most notorious type of cheating that takes place in hosted client/server games is item duping: taking a valuable item in your inventory and making an exact copy of it. To do this, players find and exploit a bug in the program. For example, they may try unusual combinations of actions that they don't think anyone has ever tested before, hoping to find something they can do that will crash the game server. If they can find a way to consistently crash the game server then they can often use that knowledge to duplicate items. To do so, they simply hand a valuable item to an accomplice, who then immediately logs off, causing his character to be saved to disk. Then they crash the server before it has an opportunity to save their own character to disk. When the server comes back up, both players should have the item in their inventories.


John "Killer" MacQueen, one of the creators of WW2 Online had this to say about client/server architecture when addressing a speedhack in his game.


    All client server games have both insecure client and insecure data stream.
    We have an advantage in that at least the server is securely in our hands, and we can do much to react and kill hacks. Any of remeber [sic] the speed hack folks used for about a week? Seen half the infantry runing around at mach 2 lately? Same applies to most any hack, the quickest way to get em gone is to make sure we know about any you see so we can kill em quicker.


    Games with the same paradigm we use regarding client/server and placing important things client side are some of the oldest games out there, AW since 1987, Warbirds since 1995, Aces High since 1999, Fighter ace since 1996 all use client side damage etc. just like we do, and all are still playing right along these days.


    What it does for us is a trade off. It allows us to do things that you can't do any other way, and it places much more of a reactionary role on us to kill these hacks when we find them. It's our job, it's nothing new, and we have been dealing with it for years.
    Hacks will happen, we will squash them.


To put it simply, hacks are going to happen. Whether they be duping or speedhacks, or whatever. Inevitably, someone will hack the World of Warcraft. The effect, however, will be significantly dampened by two factors. The first is the client/server architecture of the game. The client/server model allows for easy-alteration and control over the code, and of the hack. This allows Blizzard to swiftly respond to the incursion of hacks. The second is the fact that you are paying Blizzard a monthly fee to deal with these hacks. A "live team" is paid just to cater to you. When a hack threatens your enjoyment, they respond. Why? Because they lose customers if they don't. Serious hacks may hinder new content however, which sucks, but it's a good temporary sacrifice.

How do I deal with hackers?
The best way to deal with hackers on your own level, it to take screenshots and report them to Blizzard, that's all you can really do.

How long do these hacks in MMOs take to fix?
It varies on the hack, but relatively quick in comparison to other genres, MMOs allow for more protection for your character and gaming experience.

What is a rollback?
In the event of serious hacks, Blizzard will probably be able to "rollback" the servers. Every so often, an MMO saves the gamestate. What the player has, his stats, his gold, whatever. So an MMO company will rollback the server a few days, before the serious hack was in place, then give you the patch that eliminates it. Though you lose some game hours, the MMO world's economy is saved. This is the preferred method of fixing dupe bugs, and increases your enjoyment in the end.

What if I am caught hacking?
If you are caught hacking, you will probably be banned or your account will be suspended or wiped.







Pay to Play ?
Written by JimB on November 20 2002.

Courtesy of WoW Revolutions

"Oh hello there" waved the old man gingerly as he sat on the grass, a beautiful butterfly caressing a multi-colored flower in his hand. The young wizards from the local tower of sorcery found it particularly satisfying to tease the rickety old coot. Today, their torture was throwing sticky gobs of leftover spell components. Most would not find til much later in life that their dean enjoyed spring days outside his school.

Caution: Innocence is a virtue in my book, the more you read my articles, the less you may have when coming into the genre. Read no further if the cake the gaming industry often feeds you is enough. I wish I never lost it through community experience.

It is a very curious venture, the genre of Massively Multiplayer. Here you have a huge world, capable of sustaining thousands upon thousands of people, all able to interact, compete, socialize, exchange, and adventure. On the part of the programmer or developer, it is ambitious, difficult, and frustrating process. To not only craft a world so wonderful and detailed that it attracts new or old gamers, but one that lulls them into a sense of unfrustrating addiction. Yes, addiction.

MMO developers strive to maintain an addictive environment so you will do what this article is all about, pay a monthly fee. It's really a perpetual cycle, here's how it works.

    -You pay money
    -With that money, Blizzard pays its live team, pays the gamemasters, and bandwidth.
    -The live team creates new content, which keeps gamers interested.
    -Interested gamers pay for additional months.

An additional ploy often used by developers (not Blizzard yet mind you) is to substitute for large amounts of "launched content" (stuff already in the game at release) with a hard-leveling system. That is, whereas it may take a day to gain a level in a plain multiplayer RPG, it may take weeks or even months (at higher levels), to achieve just one level. Often, an illusion will be used to hide this fact. Often early levels are quite easy to achieve, to snag the gamer, then as the levels get higher, achievement requires more effort. This allows some companies to substitute content since you are spending your effort on leveling. Though this is thought as realistic, the greatest things take the most practice, it is a ploy to addict a gamer none-the-less.

So just what are you getting when you fork over five to fifteen bucks a month?

You are getting a "Live Team." Remember the story about the shoe maker and his wife when you were a child? If you don't, I'll recount the tale.

Deep in an industrial village, there lived a shoe maker, the kindest man in all the land. Yet kindness is not always rewarded, for his bones, growing brittle with age, stopped him from being able to make more than a few pairs a week. As time went on, the money of the old man and his wife dwindled, and winter set in. The shoe maker, now unable to support himself prepared for his last winter with his wife in his house. Leaving his shoe materials on the bench, in his basement, he returned in the morning to find ten pairs of shoes completed. This happened every day for a year until the old man had enough money to last him the rest of the night. One night he hid in his basement, with the normal amount of materials sitting on his table. He was amazed to hear a grand hum coming from outside. The window providing an air source to the basement opened and down glided ten little elves. Approaching the elves, he learned they knew of his plight and were more than glad to help the old man because he had helped everyone during his younger years. The man burst into tears and thanked them.The Live Team is a group of MMO Elves. They may pocket some of the monthly material you give them in the form of a paycheck, but they come in and create new content behind the scenes, generating it in patches. As mentioned earlier, this group of programmers and artists and usually 1 lead developer works to keep players addicted with new content, bug fixes, hack fixes, security issues, and in-game balances.

Blizzard is hiring Gamemasters. These individuals are customer service reps with a twist. Gamemasters (affectionately known as GMs) actually have in-game avatars. In other games, they can do some wonderful stuff like resurrect players who have died to bugs, get them out of bugged places, change offensive names, or ban people from the system. My favorite example is that of a malicious clan. This clan, lets call them the "Morons", would purposely "camp" (stay at the binding point of a particular monster and wait until they reappeared to kill them) newbie monster areas, effectively killing all the monsters and denying the new players experience. A GM would be called and tell them to leave. Issues like this are resolvable due to Gamemasters.

Bandwidth is the big nerdy name for information transfer across the internet. Every time code or information is sent to or from Blizzard's servers, that costs them money. For such a large scale game with thousands or potentially millions of users, you could imagine that this would cost a pretty penny. This is, perhaps, the greatest reason to pay a monthly fee. Though true, Diablo 2 on battle.net also cost bandwidth, it is much less since MMO games have more information to transfer than your typical online game.

It is both logical and necessary for a Massively Multiplayer game to have a monthly fee, there is no real circumvention. A "reduced cost for less service" has been suggested, but this isn't really viable since it creates liability for harassment charges or a stuporing experience for the player that would demean the experience and probably make the person quit. Plus the live team would still possibly be generating content for free since it would effect all servers. So a reduced fee or no fee would be just foolish. Monthly fees are here to stay for WoW, it's going to happen regardless of how "cool" Blizzard is.









The Other Side of Development
Written by JimB on November 20 2002.

Courtesy of WoW Revolutions

Today I want to elaborate on something I've touched on in the past, and one of the goals of this site, to see WoW from various perspectives. Today I want to touch on something, but I must tread very lightly, it is a dark place to which I have never been; a place spoken of myth and legend. I ask you to join me, for but a moment, and look through the eyes of a developer.

First, I suggest you read the "Why you Payquot; article. Ok? Great. Now, in case you skipped it, there are a few things which you really should remember. This is an MMO, not a fire-and-forget (the community) gaming program. We, as gamers, are paying THEM for OUR service. As the consumer, it is you that has the power, not them. Finally, it is important to remember that every game company is just that, a company. The ultimate goal is not to give you a good time, or to make sure you have fun. It is to make sure you continue to pay for their service monthly. This sounds quite pessamistic, and I agree that in general developers want you to have fun, but that is not what they are working for. "Game Developer" be it in Art, Public Relations, Programming, Human Resources, or Management, is a job, they are paid to make money, off of you, off of me, off of your overly obsessive friend down the street. Keep this in mind.

As I have mentioned in the past, a Persistent World State (always on, aka MMO) is quite different from the software Blizzard gamers are accustomed to. With a game like Diablo 2, or one of the RTS aspects of the "Craft" series, the goal is to sell the product, get it off the shelves. Blizzard looses money with Battle.net, bandwidth is charged to them whenever data is transfered to or from their server to a home computer. Battle.net is an incentive to rebuy the game if scratched or to appeal to the multiplayer crowd to buy future products. That's what Blizzard typically makes, this is a whole new ballgame boys and girls, an PWS (Persistent World State) is a whole new ballgame.

Every time you toss a twenty (or whatever the "compedative cost") at Blizzard, you are paying them for a service, it works out well for both parties. Unlike battle.net, Blizzard's new network of computers, independant from the battle.net system, are all being paid for by you. I've explained the technical details of why you pay for this, check it out if you haven't. That's well and good, in theory, but the snag that gets in the developmental eye for Blizzard is not how to get people to buy their product, (hell, slap the Blizzard logo on something and it'll sell like hotcakes) but the trick is to keep the people who buy the product.

I present the example of Dark Age of Camelot as an explanation. Dark Age of Camelot was designed to be an evolved Everquest. Better graphics, better gameplay, a haven for those tired of the same old Everquest; it had a fairly good launch, barring a little bit of a poor interface, it was good. Over time however, there became apparent a problem; after a player had achieved the highest level in the game, 50, there was nothing to do. For most people, the Realm versus Realm combat was satisfying for a time, but that eventually grew old; many people left DAoC never to return. Only recently, with the new expansion coming out, is the problem being remedied.

The problem is KEEPING the gamers through content. This is only achievable in two ways, difficulty or content. You are a developer. You want to keep them paying, but you have to keep a goal dangling above their heads. A metaphorical carot looming ever over the view of the horse that is the playerbase. Now, what are the options?

In one hand, you can make the game difficult to attain achievement. The harder it is to "level up" through experience, the longer you have to put in more content. With this option, the carot never needs to change, you take the content you already have, and just make it longer for players to reach all of it. This is what many traditional MMO games try, it takes a very long time to achieve a level, and even more-so later on. For those of you who play Diablo 2, imagine that long times three. I can't really comment on WoW, but that's what traditionally happens. If it is too hard to achieve, a game will get frustrating and players will quit however, so this cannot be too extreme.

On the other hand, you have content. MMOs are very dynamic, world capable of change easier than your commonplace RPG. They have to be. Your fanbase is PAYING for this new content, paying you to make new stuff for them to find, so that they will be more enticed to pay yet another month of fees. After all, that is what paying monthly is partially for, to add new content, to keep you, the player interested. Works out well for both sides, doesn't it? New content can take shape in new lands to explore, new monsters, new items, new abilities, or an unfolding and enticing storyline. But content is harder to produce than simply heightening the difficulty of achievement.

The goal is to make money, money off of you. The more, the better, that is the strength behind MMOs, they can rake in a great deal of cash, the goal of any company. The more the better. I promise you that content will be updated more frequently than that of former Blizzard games. Not because of the money you HAVE given them, but for the money you WILL give them. It is their obligation, their part of the deal, that they keep you interested. When that ceases, then that's simply it, the cashflow stops. It is, for the very first time, truly important to Blizzard that they keep their game balanced and interesting. That's reality, and that is a minor glimpse into the other side of the pearl picket fence.








Achievement
Written by JimB on November 20 2002.

Courtesy of WoW Revolutions

Achievement is the driving factor behind the Warcraft World. You collect items to achieve, you go on quests to achieve, you explore, buy, and sell to achieve. You build houses, obtain mounts, and gain experience to achieve. Achievement is the reason you game, there are no Seinfelds of gaming, every game has a purpose. To build a village, to be a hero, to save the world, to destroy the world, it's all achievement. Today we explore the world of achievement in the world of Warcraft. Buckle up.

Character Achievement

It all depends on a few simple choices, which folds into an elaborate, and unique character, your avatar, you manifested within the game world. Be you a Mage of renowned kindness or a Warrior following a black path of dark salvation within oblivious death. It all begins with a choice, a single choice to which all things begin, what manner of creature are you? Be you a Human, the gamely symbol of mediocrity? A Tauren, big and strong with a heart and mind of gold? Perhaps you are a dwarf, Stout and ever-ready to face the dangers of the world with a little taste of Scottish humor? Or perhaps one of the others. It determines where you start in the world, who you first encounter, and what you are as a class.

Your class is the more subtle definition of you, as defined by your race. A class is what you start as, or what you hope to be. You start off in Warcraft as a basic class, such as a Warrior. As the Warrior Class, you grow and develop as a Warrior, learning your trade in fighting with some weapons such as Swords, Axes, Maces, ect.

When you "level up" (through experience) your character, you gain access to skills, (aka abilities). These skills can manifest themselves in a number of ways, such as combat skills, magical abilities, or misc stuff. You learn skills from teachers, NPC (Non-Player-Characters) who can give you one or more skills or spells when you are ready to learn them. Perhaps requiring some task, money, or maybe just free. This of course, will have limits, you must be a certain level to learn them. When you develop to a certain point, you can choose a sub-class. Such a class may be something like a Paladin (not official). Not only a Warrior, but a Warrior who can use divine energy to help and heal himself and others.

Your class also determines what kind of items you can wear. Where Warriors may be able to don anything they want, wizards may be restricted to specific low-defensive armors or robes. Your class and race determine you, both externally and internally.

Character Achievement is one of the main purposes of gaming, especially MMOs. Becoming stronger, better, or more magical. To gain that much-wanted level, that new skills, that item you've had in your inventory but weren't high enough a level to use. That kewl new breastplate you picked up at the store. Getting stuff to make your character better, that's the primary goal of lot of MMOs. That's also the complaint of a lot of veteran MMO'ers. Some MMOs just become about kill monster-get better stuff-repeat. It's a shame.

Adventure Achievement

For some people, the means is more important than the end. It is not the achievement, but the adventure that is the true reward. Perhaps this is lost on us, in our fast-paced world of immediate gratification. The memories we gain through adventuring in WoW will be more important to us than the thought of a specific weapon. There will always be a newer, better, shinier weapon, the old ones discarded and lost. But the adventures we take are more memorable, killing Stranglethorn the Treant, pulling an all-nighter to collect the parts to the staff of Argoth-Rah and finding the right crafter to meld it into a potent magical staff. Yes, our values are truly messed up. If you've played Diablo 2 for example, can you name 5 weapons you had and used? Can you remember killing Mephisto? Which one came easier to you? Adventure is truly the lost aspect of achievement.

Plot Achievement

This is probably something you've heard before. Plot Achievement is a success which generates a significant change in the Warcraft World. Perhaps you and your clan destroy the Lich manipulating the minds of the leaders in the Warcraft world. Perhaps assembling a piece of a big gnomish "ShieldwhichisusedtoprotectthelandsofthefreeraceslimitedtoAzeroth" that was being built to protect Azeroth. It's a big achievement that effects the entire game world.

Social Achievement

You play and pay for an MMO for a reason, right? That reason is because of the huge world-like environment it presents. Social Achievement is something that reflects on you, not your character. How well you are liked by people sharing in the WoW experience. Perhaps through your clan, perhaps to patrons of the bar you are intending to make outside of Khaz-Modan. To be popular, to be liked, to be funny, to be famous, to be loved in all matters, to be thought of as wise, to be thought of as reliable, or to be thought of as one scary son-of-a-bitch. It's about a reputation, or being thought of as someone without one. To gain reputation through actions and words is as great an achievement as any quest, item, or skill. As I write this I actually realize now that I am as active as I am in the Blizzard community as active as most people are in certain communities of games as I am in games for the same reason, achievement. Perhaps that is why hardcore gamers are deep in communities, because the void of achievement in not only filled in-game, but also within the community.

Conclusion

Achievement is why gamers play. It is the motivating force behind the games, it is the fundamental truth behind activeness in communities. Whether you are in a community to achieve a difference, or reputation, it's all achievement. Whether you are in a game for adventure, plot, or character, you are doing so for achievement. It is the motivating force behind developers, to optimize achievement, to hook gamers on being better, more popular, or achieved moments and experiences in their memories. It is the achievement that makes us buy these games, it is the achievement that makes us spend our money. It is achievement that makes us live, makes us learn, makes us earn money, makes us hate death. It is achievement you pay for, not a game. And it is achievement you obtain when you participate in these communities. Should we pay monthly for what we strive for our entire lives and each day? Is it worth it to you? That is what you must ask. Are you addicted to the achievement of games? If you are, then you are, indeed a gamer.







Fine Art of Macromancy
Written by JimB on November 20 2002.

Courtesy of WoW Revolutions

The Fine Art of Macromancy

A macro in the broadest sense is a, Series of keyboard, mouse actions, and/or other computer steps recorded to be run quickly and easily. Macros are commonly created for operations that are commonly performed on a computer. Using a macro allows a user to quickly perform a operation with a press of a key or the execution of a command.

Where this may be helpful in writing applications or in an office environment, a Macro in the MMO world is a very dangerous word, in the league of cheating even.

Macro'ing

JargonFile has a more precise definition in the context of MMOs.

A macro works just like it does in real world applications. A list of commands is put together and then bound to a keystroke or code word. When this key is pressed or code is entered the command list is excuted. eg. I can write a macro that causes my character to cast a series of spells or perform some combat moves in succession.

That, in itself isn't totally horrid, though it is quite cheap. Saving time casting spells or using abilities at just the right times, it saves effort, but really degrades the game. WoW especially is made for large scale multi-enemy battles and such, making a macro quite cheap since it suppose to be an adventure, not a one-button fix. But that's not the true danger. No, the true danger lies in the Trigger-Macros, that's when the World of Warcraft really reaches a low point.

Triggering the Unmentionable

A trigger macro takes this one step futher in that the macro is excuted not by a keystroke or code word but by an event in-game eg. My character is attacked so he/she/it automatically casts an armor spell.

Imagine standing near a monster spawn all day, as soon as you are attacked, your character automatically launches into an attack, kills the monster, and waits (regenerating in the mean time) for the next monster to spawn. Still worse is WoW's instanced zones, private realities for each player. How will Blizzard's employees monitor all of these and still know if it is a macro, or a real player?

Uberblek!

You know, a macro is unfair. Whereas a normal player has to invest time and energy into a character to make him proud, a macro player could just jump into an instanced zone and go watch a movie just to come back to a character who has gained a level. It takes away the fun of the game for both the macro'er and those who must tolerate it. It could happen folks, it's not like Diablo 2 where monsters are in set locations and you walk to them. In MMOs, they can just "spawn" infront of you or walk up to you, this is quite a serious issue if not addressed by Blizzard. Hopefully it will be.







A Brief History of the MMORPG
Written by Juggernaut on December 11 2002.

A Brief History of the MMORPG

In 1999, Verant Interactive release Everquest, the game which was to really create the market for MMORPGS. It has been nearly 4 years since its release, but Everquest still remains the most successful MMORPG on the market at the moment, even amidst an ever growing number of competitors its success has spawned. Really, Everquest is and will remain for some time the most successful and furthermore, most important MMORPG ever made. It is like ID software's DOOM, it may not have been the first 1st person shooter, but it created a revolution (and in my opinion created the thriving PC gaming market) which influenced ever 1st person shooter that succeeded it. Indeed Everquest has created a ripple much like DOOM did, and ever MMORPG made from now on will owe something to Everquest. But still, Everquest wasn't a totally original idea, and the game owes its existence to some even more venerable titles, many of which you may have never even heard of. They were never really commercially successful, but still created a foundation for the genre Everquest would one day popularize.

MMORPGS really started with MUDs, or Multi User Dimensions. These were text based adventure games where a group of players from around the world could all interact within the same world. These game were for the most part free, and were really rather simple. The only one I remember at all was one called The Red Dragon, where you explored a forest killing monsters to gain money to buy better weapons and armor so that you might be able to reach your goal at the end of the forest, the battle with the red dragon. It was a very basic formula, one which forms the base of every MMORPG's game play. Kill monsters to become stronger so that you may kill stronger monsters so that you can get more powerful gear so that you may kill even stronger monsters.....etc. This forms a nearly endless cycle where you strive to become more and more powerful so that you can see more of the game and get better equipment to grow even more powerful. Unlike traditional RPGS like the Final Fantasy series or Baldur's Gate, there is never any defined goal. It is a true RPG, where the only motivations your character has are your own. You have no pre determined text; you say only what you type. This is what the MUD contributed to the MMORPG, it's most basic concepts.

Now skip ahead a few years to the release of Ultima Online. As a RPG series, Ultima was nothing short of legendary. They were some of the first and some of the best RPGs released on the PC, and with the release of Ultima Online, they would change RPGs in ways not seen since the release of Final Fantasy. UO was among the first games to commercialize a MUD, and was the first to offer subscription based service, where in exchange for a monthly fee, players would have fast, private servers to play on, a professional staff to support them, and many other features. It was an experiment to be quite sure, and it worked more brilliantly than anyone at Origin could ever have hoped. While the idea of paying to play a game they had already purchased the software for wasn't a concept that the gaming community really embraced, players bit, and the result was an incredibly successful franchise for Origin. UO also introduced many new concepts into MUDs, the most important of these being PvP combat. There had been PvP in older MUDs, but in UO, PvP was a large part of the game. Also, the concept of player housing was introduced. This also leads to an interesting byproduct that Origin's private servers created, the selling of accounts. People who wanted to make a buck, or were leaving the game would often place their accounts up for sale on sites like E-bay, where they could sell the rights to their account for hundreds of dollars. The most important thing UO added to MMORPGS though was how social the environment was. The older MUDS often were limited in the ways characters could interact, but in UO, interactions between players were routine.

The next game that would revolutionize MMORPGS was a sleeper hit called Meridian '59. The game itself was pretty unremarkable except that it was the first MMORPG to use a 3d engine and the first person view. This would become the standard for MMORPGS to come.

Finally, in 1999, Everquest was released. It was an instant hit, attracting not only dissatisfied and curious UO player, but players who had never touched a MMORPG before. The game's focus on grouping created an extremely social environment, even leading players to organize such things as days where players would gather in a central spot to buy and sell items to each other (later, these gatherings became more of a permanent fixture in certain areas in the game). An entire EQ community and subculture evolved around the game, expanding into networks of thousands of websites devoted to EQ, and forums where tens of thousands of EQ players conversed out of the game. The auctioning of accounts and equipment grew to a point where Verant stepped in and forbade the practice. The game's dynamic classes allowed players who fought smart to accomplish incredible deeds by themselves, but the really amazing aspect of Everquest was the raid. The most powerful creatures in the game, Dragons, Gods, etc. were so powerful that even a full group would be slaughtered by them. Because of this, players would have to band together in large numbers to kill these creatures. Thus the raid was born. Sometimes as many as 60 players would work together to take down the more vicious creatures in the game, and as expansions were released; revealing even deadlier creatures, the need for raids only grew. The concept of player guilds became essential to this, as players would get to regularly group together and learn to fight together and become an extremely efficient killing machine. Surely enough, some of these guilds began to stand out above the rest, guilds like Fires of Heaven, Afterlife, Conquest, Legacy of Steel, and Titon. These guilds became like icons to the other players in EQ, as they were killing creatures that they would probably never even see. Everquest also introduced such concepts as 'camping' where a player would wait to kill a rare creature for hours, even days so that they might get a rare item off of them.

On the heels of Everquest, Microsoft released their own MMORPG called Asheron's Call. The game was moderately successful, and featured a much different system of character progression. Instead of following a rigid class like in EQ, players could customize their character to become whatever they wanted them to be. However, do to poor balancing, certain abilities were more powerful than others, and players were forced to follow one of a limited number of templates to be competitive. It also featured an innovative guild system which featured ranks and benefits for the members. However,

Dark Age of Camelot promised a much different setup than EQ, one where instead of killing monsters, the goal was to kill other players! Each server was separated into 3 separate 'realms', each with a distinct theme, and a bone to pick with the other 2 sides. The 3 teams would fight over areas of unclaimed land, trying to steal land and sacred relics from the other side. This evolved to include a zone on each server that only the most successful team on the server could use, and rewards for players who were successful in killing their enemies. The game was rather light on content for those who disliked PvP, but regardless, DAoC managed to wrench enough players away from EQ to ensure its survival.

Other MMORPGS have come out since, like Anarchy Online, Earth and Beyond, AC2, WWII Online and Shadowbane. However, none of them have really contributed much to MMORPGS. You have Everquest with guns, Everquest in space, Everquest clone II, Ill conceived crap, and DAoC with more PvP. Really, besides EQ and DAoC, there isn't a lot to choose from in the MMORPG market. However, there are a number of very promising MMORPGS on the horizon. Worlds of Warcraft, Planetside, The Sims Online, and Star Wars Galaxies, and EQ2. These all promise to each bring something new to the MMORPG genre, and hopefully, will be a lot of fun too. It's becoming a very fierce market, and with a limited base of subscribers, there is likely going to be a small number of big players and a lot of failed franchises too. It will be an interesting fight to watch, that's for certain! 







The Heart and Soul of the MMORPG
Written by Juggernaut on December 12 2002.

A MMORPG is its community

I’m going to start this article out talking about class depth because it’s an important point which I don’t think I can devote an entire article to. However, it ties into something of the most vital importance to what makes a good MMORPG. Bear with me and you’ll see where I’m going with this.

When I played EQ, I had two characters. My main was a Bard, my alt an Enchanter. These two are generally considered the two hardest classes in the game to play, and for good reason. They have a variety of important tasks in a group or a raid, chief among them being crowd control, something which requires you to be on your toes at all time, and for which mistakes can be very lethal. I enjoyed it though, and loved the two classes. They may have been difficult to play, but they were two classes who rewarded the player’s skill with power. Bards for example, are considered jacks of all trades. They can fight decently, wear heavy armor, heal, do magic damage, crowd control, etc. However, for most skills that a Bard possesses, another class can do better. Warriors can fight better, Wizards can nuke better, Clerics can heal better, and Enchanters have better crowd control. So if just played on those abilities alone, the Bard is a pretty worthless class. But, when played with some real skill, the Bard is probably the most powerful class in the game.

Not every class in EQ required the amount of skill a Bard does, but they all do take a certain amount of competency and strategic know how from the player. At higher levels, if you don’t know what you are doing, it will show. I’ve seen instances on many occasions where somebody will buy an account off of e-bay, and try to play the higher level characters, only to fail miserably. These ‘E-bayers’ are really proof of how hard EQ is, as it is not a game you can just pick up at any point and succeed. Like them or not, the players in the highest end guilds like Fires of Heaven or Afterlife are all very smart (yeah, it hurts to call Furor smart) and know their shit. You do not do content like they do without having a keen grasp of not only the game play mechanics involved in Everquest, but also some strategic know-how, and to a certain extent, the math behind the game. Each time something like a God or Dragon is taken down, a lot of thought has gone into it. I have lead raids before, and can say from my own experience this is true.

DAoC on the other hand is a much different ball game. Each class has a very specific role from which is cannot operate outside. By level 20 or so, each class will possess lower level versions of every ability they will ever have, and mastery of the class is almost a moot point. An idiot can play any class in DAoC well; I’ve seen this first hand more times than I care to remember. Raids in DAoC are a pure zerg affair, due partially to the absolutely horrific job Mythic did designing raid encounters, and also do to the fact that classes don’t mesh together to create an efficient killing machine as they did in Everquest. It’s truly sad watching magic users going at it in melee against boss mobs right alongside tanks. There is no thought, no strategy, and no art to it at all. The success of a raid is totally dependant on how many people you can get together to swarm the target.

So, let’s compare two classes from each game. How about two hybrids, the Shadowknight from EQ and the Thane from DAoC. The Shadowknight borrows a number of skills from it’s Necromancer side, meaning that they can fear kite like a Necromancer can (using magic to slow a creature’s running speed, then causing it to flee, then finally using a number of damage over time (DoT) spells and their skeleton pet to kill it), but using themselves in the place of the DoTs. They have a pet who can take some hits while the Shadowknight can use any number of nasty spells to do things from lifetapping (a series of spells that damages an opponent and heals the caster), throwing fear back up, or buffing / debuffing. In raids, they can influence how a creature generates agro (the factor which decided who the creature attacks), and add a considerable amount of damage to the mix. This is just the tip of the iceberg, as they have quite a large number of other spells and strategies open to them.

The Thane on the other hand has a couple of buffs which they can throw on before combat to boost their strength and damage output, a Direct Damage (DD) and Area of Effect (AoE) damage spell. And an insta-cast DD and Point Blank AoE (PBAoE). They can fight pretty well too. That’s it. They are warriors with some ranged spells and buffs, most of which become useless when engaged in melee. Take 5 minutes to see what each spell does, and you have mastered the class. Is it any wonder that raids are such simple affairs in DAoC?

This brings us to a rather simple conclusion, EQ is harder than DAoC. Indeed, this is true. Take an upper end guild from DAoC and have them try and do a harder raid like the Avatar of War, Seru, or the Emperor, and chances are they would get torn apart. They would lack the skills needed to kill one of these nasties. Interestingly enough, the converse isn’t true. Conquest, one of the ‘Uberguilds’ from EQ went to DAoC and totally dominated in the PvP there. As Conquest hails from the same server I played on, I have interacted with their members on several occasions, and can say that they are all a really bright bunch of people. In DAoC, the majority of players I met made me remember the idiots who I played Diablo II with back in the day.

If you remember Diablo II, you’ll remember such templates such as the WW-Barbarian, the Strafazon, and the Frozen Orb/SF Sorc. These classes relied on spamming one or two skill to slaughter hordes of monsters with no thought or effort at all. It is the total opposite of the way EQ works, the easier the class was in DII, the more you were rewarded. The most powerful class templates were mind numbingly simple, while the ones that took skill to play couldn’t fight their way out of a wet paper sack. And with this simplicity, do you remember the type of players who played DII? The idiot 12-14 year old griefers who thought they were the shit because they had a Windforce and could take you out with one shot from 2 screens away, then sit on your corpse and kill you time and time again?

Griefers existed in Everquest too, but not only were they much rarer, they were hunted down themselves. As a courtesy to their victims, other players often made life hard for griefers, ranging from refusing to help them to out right killing them. By and large, the EQ community was a good bunch, and was more than willing to give you a hand if you needed it. These people were much more mature, friendly, and dare I say, smart than the people involved in other games. Some of my closest friends in EQ included a UNIX admin, a Math Professor, a Corporate Lawyer, and an Engineer. In DAoC and DII, I can’t think of anybody I grouped with who was even through High School.

This may be sounding like a bitter rant, but there is a point to all of this, and it’s vitally important to what type of game WoW turns out to be. Harder games attract a more mature audience. The type of people I enjoy playing with aren’t those who have a blast grief killing some hapless newbie 50 times, nor are they ones who want to forgo the entire skill thing just to get lots of nice items. These are people who work with each other to perfect team tactics, who have a blast seeing just how far they can push their class, and in large enjoy the social aspect and the challenge of the game over the end results of their endeavors. They will retire from the game and still talk on the same class/server/guild forums they did when they played just to keep in touch with the friends they left behind. These are the people who make the entire MMORPG experience worth it to me. Without a smart, friendly, and mature base audience, the game will be crap, no matter how much effort the developers put into it.

That is why Everquest is a great game. Sure, as a game it really sucks, but due to the community that has grown up around it, I can’t say I have had a better experience playing a video game than I have playing EQ (well, besides DDR, but that’s in a different league imo). Quitting Everquest was one of the harder things I have ever done because I left a lot of really good friends behind when I quit. I mean it too; a lot of us were real friends. We have been together for going on 4 years and have gone through a lot together, but overall, have had a hell of a time together. I have thousands of great memories from that game, and few of them involved me alone. THAT is why EQ is good, and anybody who knocks Everquest has no clue what they are talking about. I’m the first one to say the game sucks, but as an experience, Everquest was more than I could have ever expected from a simple game. And you know what, if given the chance, I’d go back and do it all over again. I’ll bet the majority of ppl who bitch about how the game is so boring are those who soloed their entire time playing, and never went out of their way to make friends. My fondest memory in EQ was probably one time when I soloed a dragon, a very difficult feat for a Bard. It wasn’t the fact that I killed it that made the even so happy, or that I got some great items off of it, but that most of my friends were there watching me do it and cheering me on (from a safe distance). I don’t remember actually killing it so much as I remember all my friends going totally wild when the thing dropped.

That is the heart and soul of a MMORPG, and as Blizzard works on WoW, it’s something I desperately hope they remember. Diablo II and DAoC failed here, as they never attracted quality players. If WoW fails here, then they are going to lose the market to Verant when EQ2 comes out, plain and simple. There is no way the kind of people I play with, nor myself, will play a game where there is no community. If WoW cannot foster a community, then no matter how much better the game play is than EQ, it’s still nothing. A MMORPG is its community. There are no ifs, ands, or buts about it, without a strong community, even the best MMORPG will be pure shit. And you know what, that’s they way things are shaping up with all games. All my friends know I’m a Dance Dance Revolution fanatic, and I can’t think of a better example of how the community makes the game great. Every time I step up to try and do a perfect run at something like MAX300 (widely considered the hardest DDR song there is, getting up to 340 beats per minute in parts), I’m not doing it alone, I have a crowd of fellow DDR players behind me rooting for me. That’s what makes a simple video game become something more than an entertaining way to kill a few hours, and become a way of life, like a hobby or a sport. I value the time I have spent playing EQ and DDR just as much as I do the time I have spent getting my Black Belt in Karate or mastering Kendo. Some people might say that I’m some sort of loser because of that, and that I have problems. To that I say f*ck you. Video games have always had a stigma attached to them that they were the domain of the type of losers who shoot their class mates because they are too much of a pussy to deal with things in a normal fashion. To an extent, that’s true, these are the griefers and powergamers who I mentioned earlier, who use video games as their only means of possessing any sort of power.

Blizzard, these are not the people you want in your games! People like dEmOnKnIgHt, 0wnzj00, Pimpdaddy and 1337DEMONHUNTER aren’t the kind of people who bring anything to a game. People like Stranoth, Sadany, Rorex, Taoleen, Mojo, Catonic, and the many other friends I have shared my EQ experience with are what make a MMORPG into an unforgettable experience, not just some lame hack and slash dungeon crawl. So keep in mind while you polish WoW to the quality that we have always seen from your games, that if you aren’t attracting the right people to the game, it’s all for nothing! EQs difficulty and complexity are what fostered its community. Sites like EQ Atlas catalogued the huge world Verant created, Allakhazam’s Magical Realm collected the most comprehensive list of the tens of thousands of quests and items that there still is to this day, while sites like EQ Diva gave all the Bards in EQ a place to compare tactics, or just to chat. Sites like the Lanys (my server =D) Community Forums gave us a place to reinforce our community spirit and for us to get to know the thousands of people we shared a server with, while sites like /GU Comics poked fun at the world us EQ players were so familiar with and Mobhunter kept us all up to date with what Verant was up to, which classes were whining about being nerfed, etc. DAoC never had even a fraction of that, neither did Diablo II. They never had the resources to do so. People like Tarot, Allakahzam, Woody Hearn, Kocho, Muse, or Moorgard were never drawn to these games, but were drawn to Everquest. I just pray that WoW developers into a mature and sophisticated game like EQ. The people that made EQ a success and people who will follow in their footsteps will need to move on eventually, and I think WoW might be where they go. Make a good game and we’ll do for WoW what we did for EQ.
On a side note, some of you have keenly observed that I swear in my articles. You can take comfort in knowing I'm much worse in actual conversation =D 







Juggernaut's Soap-Box #3
Written by Juggernaut on December 13 2002.

JUGGERNAUT’S SOAP-BOX # 3 (yeah! It has a name now!)
Tanks a lot =(


Invariably, there are two really boring types of classes in a MMORPG, the tanks and the healers. They both have very limited roles, the tank ensures that is anybody is being hit, it’s him, while the healer keeps the tank alive through this and hands out buffs where needed. It’s the most basic combo in a MMORPG, and probably the most essential. After all, a trained warrior who has been in the front lines of hundreds of battles and has an inch of armor between him and a whole lot of pain is going to last a lot longer under duress than will a mage who has a robe and a pointy hat between him and an immanent withdrawal from his HP pool, and for whom a paper cut is a grievous wound. That’s how it works, the tank takes the damage, the caster dishes it out, and the healer keeps the tank alive so that the caster can continue dishing it out…..etc. Now, weaving all manner of arcane death is usually a lot of fun, especially if the game you’re playing has a good spell engine. Healing has it’s own rewards too, and when taking care of a group can get pretty hectic. However, being a tank can just plain suck. You turn on auto attack, perhaps activate an item or 2, taunt the critter, and leave it at that. Sure, if something goes wrong, it can get really exciting (like when the caster over nukes and you get to see just how fast his HP bar drops). But most of the time, it’s really boring! But why?

I do Kendo IRL, and I can say that sword fighting is a bit more complicated than pressing a key and going to work. There is a lot to consider before you take a swing at an opponent, and the actual fighting is as complicated as any other martial art. If you ever watch two Kendo masters go at it, it’s pretty amazing to see. So, what I don’t get is if melee combat is really so complex, then why make it so brain-dead-simple in the game? I love melee combat in MMORPGS, but I hate how boring it can be. So, what can be done?

Well, look at DAoC for example, as it’s a step in the right direction. As you invest skill points into a weapon, you are granted special attacks which can be used when certain conditions are met (i.e. you parry and opponent’s attack). In addition, several of these attacks can be chained off of each other to make a rather nasty combo. It looks cool, since your weapon makes some cool transparent trails when you do the attack, and you do a unique animation, like jumping in the air and bringing a nice big greatsword down on an enemies head, or twirling your sword around in your hand before stabbing it right into a critter. It was cool, and it added some fun to the class. Unfortunately, a lot of the skills had to be used from the creature’s sides or back, meaning if you were tanking, you lost access to all of them.

However, the best fighting system I have ever seen didn’t come from a MMORPG, or a RPG even. It came from a FPS called Jedi Knight II. I had played the first Jedi Knight game, and thought that the lightsaber combat in it was as boring as hell. You get a giant, jagged looking white sprite which did a lot of damage close up and if you swung it at the right time could deflect shots. Big deal, you could basically do that with the chainsaw from DOOM, and that thing not only looked better, but was 100 times cooler! So, when Jedi Knight II came out, I wasn’t expecting a whole lot, but wanted a new FPS to play so I got it. I was bored as hell until I got the lightsaber, then I was in for a real treat. For those who have never played JKII, when using the lightsaber, the game shifts to a 3rd person chase-cam (like it’s on a helicopter following you), and you move the mouse around to influence how you attack with the lightsaber. It was the best combat system I had ever seen, and fighting dark Jedi who were also armed with lightsabers, it was a blast. You could dodge, parry and riposte, jump out of the fight to avoid a hit and jump right back in swinging away. If you wanted to jump in the air and try to cleave the guy head to toe, you could. If you wanted to do a 270’ arc with the lightsaber, you could. If your opponent took a swing at you, it was up to you to do something appropriate to either parry or avoid it. Sure, the AI wasn’t too great so after I got the hang of it I could tear them to pieces, but the point was, the combat in that game was amazing! Multiplayer, it was even better.

Now, what would be so hard about doing that in a MMORPG? If Quake 3 can figure out that I just railed somebody from half a mile away, why can’t a MMORPG figure out that the dragon we’re fighting is about to spew out all sorts of bad burning stuff and if we don’t move our asses an about a second, we’re going to be in for it. Imagine it, you’re a tank fighting a dragon (yeah, I know, doing it solo probably isn’t a great idea, but I never said you’re a SMART tank =D). The dragon takes a swipe at you with it’s claws from the side, but you time it just right, and swing your sword so that you parry it (…..you’re also a REALLY buff tank). So then the dragon decided to roast your armor plated behind, and gets ready to spew a bunch of fire on you. But you realize what he’s doing just in time and dash out of the way. But uhoh, you have agro on that dragon remember? So, it naturally tracks you and tries to catch you in the gout of flame. Knowing if you don’t do something quick you’re about to regret your lack of fire resistance gear, you run to its flank, only to be greeted by it’s tail. You don’t react in time, and WAM! Pwned. What’s so hard about doing this? Making an advanced combat system would mean that being a tank was a very skilled position, not something you could just 2-box and be done with. Taking random swings would result in you getting your ass handed to you, just like it would IRL. In Kendo, if you don’t play smart, you lose, it’s as simple as that. I may be bigger and stronger than most of the people I practice with, but if they play smarter than me, I’ll get beaten all the same.

Would this make a tank difficult to play? Yeah, it would, but isn’t difficulty what skill is for? I mean, it’s not like you would be fighting dragons from lvl 1. This gives those newbie mobs a new purpose, to help you better understand how to properly fight so when you are ready for tougher content you have the skills to face them. By the time you hit reach the highest level you can get, I think it would be reasonable for you to have more or less mastered your class, and have the stuff you will be facing will be accordingly difficult. Now I’m not advocating that the actual process of attaining this mastery be difficult, as all that will do is frustrate players. When I got into my 30s with my Bard in EQ, I really needed to learn how to swarm kite, so I found a nice spot another higher level bard suggested and got to work. Swarm kiting is difficult, and in fact is probably one of the harder techniques in the game to learn and execute properly. I failed a lot, but got better and better at it until I was pulling it off successfully fairly consistently. Through practice I got better, and now, 35 lvls later, swarm kiting is second nature to me. It was difficult, but it was nothing I was incapable of doing. That’s how I think melee should work too! Fight, get better, learn from more experienced players who are willing to give you pointers, and pick up a few tricks of your own. It would probably be too much to ask for the system to be so complex that you can basically learn a style all your own (and if Blizz could pull that off, that would be an AMAZING addition to WoW), but being able to get better at fighting through your skill as a player, and not random ‘skill ups’ or skill points like in EQ and DAoC.

Another thing to consider is the weight and feel of a weapon, and also how it is optimally used in combat. Think of it like this. As a newbie, somebody gives you a nice greatsword. You use it a bit, really like it, and devote yourself to that weapon. You get better and better at using it, and have basically specialized in that weapon. Then you find a really uber longsword on a raid and decide to use that instead. However, the first time you’re in combat, the fact that you’ve never used a longsword really hits home. It feels totally different from your old greatsword, and although you may be able to adapt to a certain extent, you’re nowhere near as effective using it as you are with your greatsword. Through practice with it though, you get a better and better feel for how to use the weapon and learn all its quirks. So with the time you have invested, you have gotten better at using it. But then one day you pick up a really nice mace, and realize the first time you give it a swing you don’t know wtf you’re doing……. This is you, the player, getting skill with the weapon. You have your friend sit down with the same character, and your character is going to be skilled with whatever your friend knows how to use. Now tell me, what’s more rewarding, dumping points into a skill to get better with a weapon, or virtually practicing with it to become better and better with it yourself? If you answered #1, go back to Diablo II you lamer!

Something else to consider is how different races would use a weapon. Say in EQ, both Ogres and Wood Elves can be warriors. If you give them both swords, are they going to use them the same? Hell no! IRL, I’m 6’6 and weigh about 260 lbs. Most of the people I practice with are around 5’10 and weigh nearly half as much as I do. I don’t use my sword anything like they do. I’m a lot stronger (the Ogre), and use a lot of broad attacks and presses that they will have a helluva time defending against. They (the Wood Elf) on the other hand know that if they pit their strength against mine, they will lose, so they have to rely on speed and finesse to win. In the end, it still comes down to skill, but in different ways. Depending on what race you choose for your tank, you will have to play your races strengths to be effective. Just because you play something big like a Tauren doesn’t mean you can adopt a ‘Me Barsh Guud!’ attitude in combat (although saying it never hurts!) and just randomly swing. You will have to use attacks that maximize the effect your strength will have on an attack as you don’t have the speed or agility to match what the other races can do there. On the other hand, those same attacks aren’t going to be as effective for an Elf warrior. You aren’t as strong as that Tauren, but you are a LOT faster, and you use that speed to strike vitals, parry and riposte, etc.

Now, how’s THAT sound for a combat system? No longer would being a tank mean just taking a beating. You actively engage your opponents, looking for weaknesses you can exploit, all the while using your skill as a player to both rip your opponent a new one and keeping yourself with only as many openings come standard. After all, your character is an avatar, just a graphical representation of yourself. Shouldn’t it be YOU who’s the badass killing machine, not your character? The more your characters power rests in your skill, not your equipment, stats, level, or skill points, the more satisfying of an experience playing him/her will be. I know I’d rather get up after playing and say ‘Holy crap! I’m getting really good with my axe!’ than ‘Oh boy, Juggernaut got another point in his axe skill…..yay.’ 







L33T SPEAK
Written by Juggernaut on December 18 2002.

L33t SPEAK (#4)
by Juggernaut

MMORPG MONOPOLIES
The story of what a monopoly does to a MMORPG, and how the maturing of the genre will prevent it from ever happening again.

<(-'.'-<)

So far in the history of MMORPGs, there always seems to be one big player in the market with a few other games orbiting around them. First it was UO, and since then EQ. Now, we have a new generation of MMORPGs coming out, and now things are shaping up for one hard fought battle for each and every one of us poor slobs who are willing to shell out $13 a month to play in their sandbox. It seems that the MMORPG market is growing up, and now games in the genre are going to be serious competitors with each other.

Now, as consumers, competition like this is great! Take one of the commercial arch-rivalries of all time, McDonalds and Burger King. In a given day, we as consumers will eat at one or the other, winner take all. Now, as a consumer, you will eat at the best restaurant. So, if McDonalds presents a better bargain/meal/etc. you’re going to eat there. So, in order to attract your business, each restaurant has to offer a better service than the other. This wonderful byproduct of capitalism ensures you get the best product for your money. Now compare that to a monopoly (and no, I’m not going to talk about Microsoft you wannabes! Yeah, you know who you are!). Here in Reno, we’re experiencing some rather foul weather atm. In fact, this last Sunday, we had such a nasty storm here that it knocked out power to a large part of the city. Here in Washoe County, we have, like most places, one provider of utilities, in this case a company called Sierra Pacific. The process of contacting them to report a utility outage was a total nightmare involving a voice recognition system that I could have probably hand programmed (ask Twister, I’m hardly a l33t programmer), and then taking almost a full day to get power restored (and in some areas, it’s STILL not restored, a full 4 days later). While there is no way around having a single utility company in a given region, its abysmal service like this that a monopoly can get away with.

Now, relate this to a game like Everquest. Now, I know plenty of you have sent me whiny e-mails saying that whatever you play is better than ‘Evercamp’ or ‘Evercrap’ or whatever other clever names you copied off of Slashdot, but the fact is, EQ dominates the market. EQ has a HUGE subscriber base, lager than every other MMORPG in the market combined I’d wager. Regardless of what you think of it, EQ is currently the biggest game in the genre, and has only minor competition (Like what McDonalds might get from a small local chain). EQ is a MMORPG monopoly. What this means is that Verant and Sony have a lot of flexibility, and can make calls that will increase their profits. However, things weren’t always like that.

When EQ came out, Verant had no assurances about the games success. With AC on the horizon, they had to make the game work or die trying. As a result, after a rather bumpy release, EQ was very high quality. It wasn’t perfect, but there was a lot of attention to detail and the world/encounters/etc. were all very nicely done. This was the same when the games first expansion, Ruins of Kunark came out. By this point, EQ had trumped AC, and was king of the MMORPG market. It had a huge player base, and a thriving community, and was more or less assured success. Then things got messy. Scars of Velious, the game’s third expansion, began a rather nasty trend in EQ expansions.

The lowest you could really hunt in Velious, the new continent introduced in SoV, was around 35. That is (numerically, not as far as time invested), over half way through the life of your character. It also introduced a LOT of content that only a very powerful and organized guild could overcome. Sure, I enjoyed it a lot because I was in the ‘uberguild’ camp, and I think mobs like the Avatar of War and Tunare still are the greatest challenges (for the time) that EQ has ever presented, but where old world and Kunark’s boss mobs took a reasonable amount of time to kill, critters like Velk, AoW, Tunare, and Vulak had a TON of HP, and it really was a contest of who brought the most guns to the party. Then there was Sleepers Tomb, home of the most powerful creature in EQ. Here we saw Verant being just plain sloppy with the entire event of waking the Sleeper being bugged to hell. Finally when a guild used certain tactics to kill the final creature needed to wake the sleeper, Verant stepped in and disbanded the guild and banned many of the players in what became the most controversial event in EQ. It pissed off players (even those not involved) to no extent that Verant would take such and action, and really was a CS nightmare.

Shadows of Luclin, the next expansion had one of if not the worst launch in MMORPG history. The new graphics engine was a total pile of crap, and while it looked nice, it brought even brand new machines to their knees. The lag was awful, as was the wait to get a turn at downloading a huge (over 100 megs) patch required even to play. There were bugs galore, and things were broken in very nasty ways. It took several months of patches just to get things to where they should have been at release. Then there was the expansion itself. Verant had promised a rich and detailed story to go with the expansion, but to this day, only fragments of this story have been found in buggy and broken quests. Only a few of the zones in the expansion were any good to hunt in, and travel could be a real bitch due to there being no way to port from place to place. It offered nothing to low lvl chars, and only a single zone (which in all fairness remains the best xp from about lvl 8 to 25) for mid lvl players. As for high end content…….it was a nightmare. The big zone in SoL was a place called Vex Thall, home of spooky robed men with 6 arms and the best loot in the game. Only problem was that to get in, you needed a key. To get one, you had to undertake a quest that involved an obscene amount of both time and boring camps. These timesinks made it a real ordeal for a guild to stage a raid in VT, and was not fun in the least. I did it several times, I know. Or there was Grand Inquisitor Seru. He has a cool sword, looks like Auron from FFX, and is more or less immune to all weapons. However, Verant was kind enough to offer players another delightful timesink to acquire a weapon that could do damage to him. Acrylia Caverns was the same deal, but I never even looked into going there. It took such an outrageous amount of time to allow your guild entry to a raid, that guild leaders were forced to take either the Vex Thall, Seru, or Acrylia route for the SoL endgame. I’m sure some moron in Verant thought this would be a great idea since it would cut down on competition for higher end spawns, and cut down on zerg style raids. All it did was have me playing Contra, looking over my shoulder occasionally to see if the mob I’d been waiting for 6 hours for was up. Oh, and what does everybody else get for purchasing the expansion? A new class and race, and new PC models. They could have patched that in.

Finally, we have Planes of Power. Not a bad expansion at all, and a lot of the new battles with the gods are a lot of fun. But again, like Velious, if you weren’t in a good guild you would never see those fights, and if you weren’t high lvl, you weren’t going to see any of it. What did all the other players get for purchasing the expansion? One zone that acted like a travel hub and a good place to buy spells. Oh, and can’t forget the Firiona Vie (the scantly clad EQ covergirl) action figure the game came with! I don’t know about most people, but I took one look at it, thought ‘WTF, who thought THIS would be a good idea’, and then gave it to my gerbils as a chew toy. They got a lot more enjoyment out of it that most EQ players did.

I think every EQ player can agree that EQs quality has been slipping. Back in EQ classic and Ruins of Kunark, the entire game was accessible (except for perhaps half a dozen zones and parts of the over 100 zones in the game) to anybody who was sufficient level and had a decent group. I miss zones like Old Sebilis where you could fight with a group of your high lvl friends, while a whole raid could take out Trakkanon (think Dracolich, meaty style) deeper in the same dungeon. The game felt well made, and there was a LOT of story to it. When you take out Trakkanon, Veneril Sathir, or the Ring of Scale dragons, you knew who you were killing and what impact they had on the world. I still don’t know who the hell Aten Ha Ra (the boss in Vex Thall) is, or even what her entire race is supposed to be. Or how about Emperor Ssraeshza? Ruins of Kunark built a great story about his race and how they were all killed off by and act of god, but SoL never explains why the hell they are all living on the moon now, it only hints at how the race who they once enslaved is making plans to come up to Luclin and wipe them out for good. It’s incredibly frustrating that it was all left as is and never built on. Verant never had to, so they never did. They just did a half assed job designing content and over-tweaking classes. They were king, and they knew people would keep playing.

But things are changing. EQ 2 is coming out in the not so distant future, and it will be coming out in a much different climate than Verant is used to. Previously, there hadn’t been any real great developers making MMORPGs, so there had been no real competition for Verant. Now however, a lot of the bigger names in gaming are jumping into the fray. Westwood, the maker of among other games, the Command and Conquer series released Earth and Beyond, a space based MMORPG which has been rather successful so far. Twister convinced me to download the massive demo and give it a try with him, and I can say it’s not bad. Blizzard will be releasing WoW close to the same time EQ 2 is coming out, and will probably be providing the stiffest competition. Blizzard is an old company who has proven with every game they release that they do not compromise their quality. If they take the same ideology to WoW, Verant is going to have to change their tune very fast. Players don’t want to have to pay $13 a month so they can have their character screwed up, their items nerfed, and to be able to pay for content they may never be able to use. They put up with it because they enjoy EQ. Now, if they also enjoy another game and don’t have to put up with the crap, where do you think they are gonna go?
The opposite applies to games like WoW too. EQ2 will more than likely be a good game. Verant may make a LOT of mistakes and stupid decisions, but their game has attracted hundreds of thousands of players and spawned the largest community in gaming. They know what they are doing, and I have no doubt that EQ2 will reflect that. If Blizzard cannot offer up something as good as EQ2, all to good CS in the world won’t save them. Look at Anarchy Online, the game with, I think, the best CS in the industry. The game sucked, it flopped.

As MMORPGs diversify too, things will grow even fiercer. We will have fantasy MMORPGs like EQ2 and WoW, Sci Fi ones like EB, and SWG, and even ‘RL’ ones like The Sims Online. Each player is going to have a preference for a genre, just like we do for broader genres like shooter, RPG, etc. As players are given more choices for where to invest their time and money, there will be more and more big players in the genre. Where EQ might have been able to attract people who weren’t totally into the fantasy thing due to there being no other option, it will find that these people will go to a genre they enjoy more and will find itself excluded from segments of it’s old market. Still, as it is now, I foresee one big player in each genre, and like the game market has always been, big rewards for those games which can create new genres. It would seem that the guys at Verant are about to get a taste of what the gaming industry is really like.







Trading Skills Part 1 of 2
Written by TorN on January 7 2003.

This article wasn’t intended to be so long when I drew its lines... But after a bit of thinking, I simply couldn’t fit this big and important subject in a few lines. That's why I had decided to split it into two parts.

This part will talk more about the economic aspect of trading skills while the second part’s subject will be trading skills in general. Even if the second part is already written and ready to be published, I expect to put it online only sunday or monday next week...

ECONOMY

Economy 101 - would you trade this pack of beer for my wife?

In offline games, economy is one of the less important things: how many times have you finished a game as a multi-billionaire? Still, were all of those games boring? No. Economy in a single player game is not that important, or at least, a majority of companies don't take this seriously.

However, things are extremely different in multiplayer games; especially in MMO. To give an example of a well known unbalanced economy, Diablo 2 miserably failed: soon, gold pieces (which were planned to be the one and only currency on Battle.net) were only used to repair items and to buy unidentified objects. Beyond those two small uses, gold was absolutely useless! Players would never trade any items for a decent amount of gold! In fact, special items became the unofficial, but widely used, currency. SoJ is an example… they were even sold on ebay.com for real bucks. This kind of thing really spoils an online game, doesn’t it? The results would be the same in about any MMORPG.

How can this be avoided? This isn’t simple. Macro economy is extremely complicated and contains many parameters. Here are some of them:

-The amount of money dropped by killed monsters: if too much is dropped, especially in the beginning, players will gain levels too rapidly with top notch equipment. But still, as long as money dropped isn’t extremely abundant, it should never cause inflation if other parameters are well set.

-The amount of money received from sold items: that’s a critical point: most of the unbalanced games lack foresight here: magic items, when sold, were worth thousands of gold pieces… Of course, the important sub-parameter here is the scarcity of magic items: the more they are scarce, the more they are worth money… that’s a basic principle of economy. But in many games, magic items are too often dropped and players can do item runs to gather a lot of money in a pretty short time. The same can apply on item farming: when you know a certain monster drop this item and it is pretty expensive: players will stay in the area looking for this monster, and this monster only. An identified problem here is that NPCs almost always carry an unlimited amount of money on them; very few games have corrected this... In conclusion, the most important thing is to sell magic items for much less than we’re used to see in “normal” games, and/or to keep magic items very scarce. Anyway, if magic items are so rare, why would a player sell it to a NPC?

-The amount of money required to buy equipment: only normal (read: non-magic) equipment should be sold. The price should be set so that the level requirement fits the average amount of money a player of this level has. What I mean here is that a level X player shouldn’t be able to buy a whole set of armor and weapon of level requirement X. Even 1 piece of equipment should be quite tough to afford. That way, players are forced to get most of their equipment elsewhere: player crafted items, monster loot or simply keep the weak equipment that can’t be replaced now! If players would be able to buy the best equipment right away, the game would offer no real challenge making fights probably very easy.

-And finally, the amount of money required to buy craftable items: trading skills often require some materials. For example, you may need some ore to forge a piece of weapon or armor… If this ore can be bought for a very high price, crafting becomes expensive and a lot of money is loss in the process. The positive side of this is that the crafter can make over-average quality items, which should be very sought amongst players on the server.

Chemistry 101 - money is neither created nor destroyed (only spent or earned)

This brings me on my next subject: money black holes. Why is it important to create such thing? Because if there isn’t any, money will gradually accumulate in player’s pockets which will rapidly lead to insane inflation. In the end, money will not be used in player-player trades. The link with all this stuff may seem uncertain at this point, but there's a solid one... keep reading.

Trading skills, especially crafting items that require players to buy stuff from NPCs is one of the most important black holes: crafters will buy expensive stuff during all the hours or days required to reach a "mastership" of the crafting. For the majority of the games, players have to craft the same item many hundreds of times before creating a respectable item... this represents a lot of "wasted" money. In a game without trading skills, developers would have to find alternate ways to make the players loose money... Sometimes, death will penalize them but in MMORPGs, the tendency seems to point mostly toward experience points for this issue. Item repairs, housing taxes, item identification are other commonly employed ways.

Money travels as fast as the wind

In some games, players can be at the point to find their own equipment exclusively in the loot of their victims. However, in games featuring trading skills, equipment crafted is often superior to the one found "in the nature" so experienced players will be more tempted to get their equipment from crafters. Assuming the economy is well balanced, any trade between players could be concluded with the use of money...

The money a "monster hunter" player gets by selling his loot can be used to pay a crafter in exchange of a better piece of equipment. The money the crafter received is then used to buy stuff to craft tougher items from NPCs (or players if applicable -that'd be really cool if special drops could be used in trading skills... get dragon blood from a black dragon and use alchemy skill to create a vicious poison...). By supporting trade between players, money piles up in a few players’ inventory and a big percentage of this money is spent in NPC shops.

The best situation possible is to have a pretty much stable amount of money worldwide that would be equal to something like "number of players X constant"... meaning that( when the economy has to be stabilized) for each gold piece earned, someone else spends one somewhere.

This concludes the first part of the article. Stay tuned as the rest will be published in a couple of days. :) 





Trading Skills Part 2 of 2
Written by TorN on January 10 2003.

Here's the second -and last- part of my article about trading skills.

CRAFTED ITEMS

What would make crafting worth the implementation is that crafted items should be superior to any items found in the wild. This creates a need amongst high level players seeking better stuff which pushes crafters to spend a little more money on crafting to reach higher results and fill the request.

Player crafted quality items should be very rare too; it wouldn’t be right to have the market flooded with those items while magic (non-crafted) items are so difficult to get. That’s why crafted items should be very, very costly to produce. The market price for this item will be very high because of the production cost, and only rich players (high level) will be able to afford them. But at some point in a MMORPG, players always seek for better stuff. This often happens when the player is in his last levels.

Now, let’s assume drops are superior to player crafted stuff. What happens when a player is high level and wants a good drop? He gets his friends with him and farm the item. That way, he doesn’t have a single coin to spend on anything and still get a powerful item. And since high level players don’t have many places to spend all their money, they accumulate a lot of it, inflating prices to a ridiculous level until those items cannot be traded for money!

At the opposite, if crafted items are superior, high level players will pay a lot to get those special pieces of equipment… and in all MMORPG (at least those I know), there are many parts that can be crafted and it would cost a lot of money to get them all.

On a side note, having the crafter’s name inscribed somewhere on the item would be a very nice addition for crafters. Best crafters would become famous… maybe even legendary!

Another way to make players spend extra money, which goes with high quality crafted items is that there could be NPCs enchanting this equipment, adding a little extra something to it. I don’t think cosmetic-only changes would work though.


GAME SIDE

Only a way to make players waste some of their money or a "must-have" feature?

You are wrong if you think trading skills is only a way to maintain a stable economy on a realm. Trading skills are just so much! They are a critical part of the game. Without them, players wouldn’t have the same feeling of relationship between them, commercial exchanges wouldn’t be the same, players would rapidly get bored of hunting the same monsters over and over again… MMORPG wouldn’t have this little magic thing that makes people play the game during months.

In my gameplay experience, I’ve met people who crafted for many hours in hope to reach a certain degree of a particular trading skill –I, myself, has been one of these in a few MMORPG-. Trading skills are boring you say? It seems not everybody thinks like you… Yes, some games made it more boring but once again, everything depends on how the developers did their job! Trading skills must not seem to be a drudgery! Every parts of a game must be fun; otherwise, we wouldn’t call these softwares games!

Bored of hunting? Advanced one step further in your quest but you want to do something different? You are a non-violent person and can’t stand Toontown anymore? Trading skills offer a solution for these people... It adds something else to do.

Trading skills aren’t only about crafting and smithing… All the examples I gave above can also be applied to fishing! See, by selling nice catches to players, you get money to buy better fishing rod and, ultimately, maybe a fishing boat!?

Treasure hunts were one of the best features I’ve seen in Ultima Online; trading skills were related to this… In UO, there was a huge list of trading skills but because of that there were many specialisations a player could take. It adds a touch of customization in a character. It reinforces the feeling of being part of a community, depending on other players to accomplish a complex quest or work. Without that, while bother paying to play with other people online?


CONCLUSION

Blizzard got a lot to do to make WoW an interesting game. Company’s reputation and game’s brand are not enough. MMORPG are very complex and to be successful, they must be very careful: they have to reach a maximum of players, make the game’s life almost infinite, make the game interesting, appealing to the eyes, balance every races, classes, the economy, the items, the monsters... They have to avoid mistakes others have done: overcrowding, popular camping points, common uber equipment... Challenges are extremely important: high level players must be kept interested in the game. Finally, a variety of trading skills is crucial.






E3 2003 : IGN coverage summary
Written by Twister on May 13 2003.

Today IGN posted a new article discussing new concepts in World of Warcraft. It was a whopping six pages long, so here’s a wrap up of the most important/new information that can be found within. The article starts with a bit of history and world geography:

Part of Elwynn Forest is now the gloomy Duskwood which was invaded by the orcs. Duskwood is near Deadwind Pass, site of Medivh's tower. Duskwood is also near another corrupted former holding of Stormwind, the Human capital. To the west is Westfall, abandoned by Stormwind's garrisons. A group of outlaws has taken up residence here, known as the Defias Brotherhood. Farther to the south, at the southern edge of Azeroth, lies Stranglethorn Vale. The human presence in Stranglethorn is limited to the bustling port of Blackwater Cove. With the Humans out of the way, Goblin merchants are braving the Jungle Trolls and have started setting up their own mining and forestry operations in the jungle. The Night Elves giant tree-homes will be found in the forests of Kalimdor.

Now, to the most interesting part. We learned a lot about skills, transportation, and the game’s interface through this article. I suggest you first look at our screenshots (here) to give an idea what we will be covering in the remaining of the article. Blizzard plans to allow plenty of transportation points around the world to make travel easier. We already knew about ships, zeppelins and wolves, which are mentioned in the article. The new addition is the Griffon, which will be available for hire at Griffon nests, and will travel in the air to the destination nest of your choice. To make traveling long distances less boring, Blizzard plans to introduce some special ‘games’ while you travel, such as gambling in zeppelins. Details are still scarce though.

IGN’s article also greatly covered character aspects such as races and skills. For each race you will need to pick a class, many which are based on the characters of the strategy game. Blizzards goal is to include a range of classes, each with there own unique role, at the moment there are 10 characters per account so you have the opportunity to use many different classes and races. They did not mention anything about how many per server or only 10 global accounts.

The Human mage’s main skills include fire and frost magic while her “ turn-offs” include range combat characters, unlike most other games this character is quite good on her own, Chains of ice freezes some of her opponents in place, while flame bolts knock other out … Out COLD! As we can see so far Blizzard is trying to make this type of character more effective on there own, unlike other games “ for example a Necromancer in Diablo 2 “ and they are offering ways of managing monsters in groups as well as individually. Spells like polymorph can temporarily turn a number of enemies into sheep.

The Tauren, as a warrior, can use battle shouts to deal with some of the weaker monsters, while a well-timed whirlwind attack bring the Taurens might down on many enemies at once. The Orcish Shaman can call down magical Lightning Bolts and fire Molten Blasts from his hands should make him effective enough. He is also a healer and an enchanter, protecting himself and his friends with Spirit Armor or Lightning Shields. He can even resurrect fallen players, eliminating the long walk back from the bind stone.

Dwarven hunters specialize in ranged combat, as well as animal taming. A hunter at high levels can easily train many different types of animals to serve alongside him in combat. The pet gets a portrait icon right beside the player's. Right-clicking the portrait of the pet opens up a behavior menu where you can issue simple orders like "heel," "guard," or "attack." After a fairly brief "recharge" phase, you can summon your pet again to continue to serve you.

Finally, the Night Elves Druid over all is quite unique, having the ability to rapidly transform into a few different kinds of animals. One form is the cat, it grants the druid speed, the druid can also transform into an innocuous form of animal life appropriate for the area. The animal cannot use any spells while transformed to keep balance. The druid also has another ability to whip up a suit of thorns to defend his body and cause vines to come up and entangle his enemies. Fairy fire cast on the remaining enemies makes them easier to hit. Most primary skills will be trained through usage, which means the more you use it, the higher and more efficient it gets. Once a skill ‘levels’ through training, you will get special ability points to put into primary or secondary skills.

So you’re a PvP type of guy eh? One sure place to find a good fight is the massive arena in Stranglethorn Vale. This arena is the site not only of level-based, consensual PVP action, but also of player battles against beasts and monsters in frequent staged events. Although only 10% of the world allows PVP, Blizzard said the land will be well used!

The WoW team has already reached the number of quests they intended to have at launch and are still busy adding more. Quests improve the game by providing a context for the players adventuring. They're also specifically designed to lead you to other quest givers or hunting grounds. Your character may deliver mail to a stranger who suddenly offers you some lucrative jobs. Or you may be asked to clean out a kobold mining camp, a task you can repeat as often as the kobolds return. Quests are said to be well rewarded experience-wise, but you will still have to fight to raise your skill ratings.

The entire interface has been kept under until now but Blizzard had the final version up and running: Your character portrait sits in the upper left of the screen next to your health and energy bars, while a small round map lies in the upper right corner. The map also indicates the time of day and gives you the name of your current location and a plus and minus key make zooming in and out pretty simple.

Thanks for reading! WoW does look great doesn’t it!

Also thanks to IGN for the article and to TorN and LordKaimin for their contributions. 






Screen Shot analysis with Shania and me.
Written by Aalmaron on May 14 2003.

A lot of you just look at the new screen shots, and move on, not taking the time to think about them, and some of you didn't know there were now screen shots! I am going to share the information I got from them : we are going to follow the progress of young Shania.

Picture 1

Young Shania has gotten in a group with her friends,"Kalin", "Valdelmar", and "Zan". They have decided to get a quest together; lets see what we can find out.

1) The object (NPC or PC) selected has its health and mana put up next to yours.
2) You can yell also, not just 'say', which means a larger number of people hear you probably.
3) You can see your level right next to your avatar, and the level of the selected character next to theirs.
4) The classic gauntlet icon from Warcraft 3 is there, for a human character at least.
5) If you match the guy who has his hands cupped, with his picture on the left, and then the words below, you can see that when someone 'yells' they cup their hands. nice effects.
6) You can see group members' health. This one goes out to you healers.
7) You get a small avatar next to your group members names.
8) You get a map, with quite a few features such as :
9) You can zoom in and out on the map.
10) It tells you if it is day or night. For you people with your gamma turned up so high you cannot tell.
11) It tells you what 'zone' you're in. But you should already know that.
12) The group leader has a crown next to his name. kinda cool.
13) You get 12 skill quick slots per layer. A lot of slots, this is great for mage classes.
14) You get 5 item quick slots, per layer again. like in Diablo.
15) Copper is money, i'm guessing this means its the standard Cp, Sp, and Gp. nice move not making people learn new metals.
16) There are 20 bubbles above the quick bar, I think it's XP.
17) There are multiple rows of the 12 quick slot skills. that way you can have a rows for trade skills, and fighting.
18) The chat window is transparent. less bulky interface quite a change for blizzard.
19) Money is split when looted. great for those modest people that don't loot often.

Picture 2

Wow, that was a lot of information. Next, our good friend Shania, and her friends are getting a quest. The group has to kill 7 kobolds, to earn 20 Cp, and a minor healing potion.

1) There is a 'talk bubble' that pops up at the bottom of the cursor when over someone you can talk to. I guess it will help you find the difference between NPC's, and NPC's who want to talk.
2) This shows us that before we accept a quest, we get its story, and you can just look at the objectives and reward. I think everyone who has played Anarchy Online have loved this in the past, Blizzard has given it even new depth.

Picture 3

The group has started killing the kobolds, she has just earned 16 XP. It looks like Kalin, and Zan are off getting warm by the camp fire.

1) It shows casting time of a spell.
2) You get an exp (or XP as its going to be called) # when you kill something.
3) There are emotes for all of us emote junkies.
4) There is a party talk channel.
5) It shows the status of your current quest at the top of the screen. So you people with short term memory loss don't have to keep checking a journal.

Picture 4

It looks like Shania and her group have fulfilled their task, and are fighting for XP now. It seems Valdelmar just leveled. For some reason, Shania has '(*)' next to her name.

1) It shows your buffs up to the left of the map.
2) There is an armor slot for bracers. I'ts nice having more armor slots.
3) Skills auto increase. Ruling out the point based system of Diablo for primary skills.

Well Shania has decided to go to sleep now, see you maybe some time later. 





Screen Shot analysis with Me again.
Written by Aalmaron on December 10 2003.


Picture 1
This Screen Shot shows The “Buff Bar” or where you visually see your buffs in the HUD. This is a pretty standard part of a MMORPG. It is located at the upper right hand part of the screen, just to the left of the map.
It also shows us that the use of “bags”, and “back packs” is something we will see. This is great as we can alter how much we can carry with them. We can also sort with them. It is located at the right hand part of the screen, right under the map.
Now this has been in pretty much all the Screen Shots with a HUD in it. But I just now figured out what it is. (thanks MSShred) The green, veritical bar at the bottom of the menu, down towards the left of the back pack slots, and the right of everything else, looks to be the Stamina bar. Now that we know that there is stamina, due to the new item the “Blood Ring”. It is logical, since Diablo also had a stamina bar. This leads me to believe that stamina is probably going to serve the same purpose in this game. Although there is always the possibility it can be a stat.
We also see the trade window in this Screen Shot, nothing special.

Picture 2
This Screen Shot leads me to believe that when an item is up for roll, a window pops up to view its stats. If you read the text, our good friend Barney lost the roll, but he is somehow looking at the stats of the item being rolled on.
In the lower corner of this SS, you can see DumbleDwarf’s level and class, and I would bet that the curser is over him in the SS too.
Also something to be noted in this SS, Mr. DumbleDwarf has 2 capital letters in his name, something that some MMORPG’s won’t let you have. So everyone is in luck, from people with lavish names, to people whose name has every other letter capitalized.
This as well as the last SS, shows us that items will have level requirements, lowering the tweaking going on.

Picture 3
This Screen Shot doesn’t show us much, except for the fact that people can see zone (or at least instance) walls. I think this is worth mentioning.
That’s all I have noticed with this batch of Screen Shots, if you find more, email me or PM me (staff page).
Before you go though, I’d like to point out that blizzard added a caption to one of the Screen Shots saying “Why is the cannon pointed at the door? Perhaps if you had some gun powder...”
This leads me to believe that there are probably mini quests inside dungeons (in this case you have to find gun powder) to get to other parts of them, must so you have to explore the whole place, making them a much longer adventure



What guild are you best suited for
Written by Drack on January 20 2004.

What guild are you best suited for?

Terms used in this article:
PvP: Player versus Player
PvE: Player versus Environment
Mmorpg: Massively Multiplayer Online Roleplaying Game
Zerging: The tactic of hopelessly outnumbering your enemy in order to win. The term originated in Blizzard’s Starcraft where it was a common tactic to train a lot of ‘zerglings’ at the beginning of a game and overwhelm your opponent before he had a chance to build up any defenses.
Hardcore gamers: Players who devote a large amount of time to playing games.
Casual gamers: Players who devote a very small amount of time to playing games.

Guilds can be found in any multiplayer game. However, there are many types of guilds, each suited to a different type of gamer. In this article I will discuss each type of guild as well as the type of player that is best suited to them.

These are all examples based on my personal experiences as a long time gamer and retired guild leader. The goal of this article is to help gamers old and new determine which type of guild best suits their play style.

The Family Guild:
This guild is made up of very few members, most if not all of which are real life family and friends. Obviously this would be a guild suited for the family that games together.

If you are interested in playing with just your family and close friends then this type of guild would likely suit you best.

[Guilds of this type usually don't have a website]

The Social Guild:
This is a smaller guild of friends. Usually composed of mainly people you meet in game or through other venues. This guild is very social; the general relationship between the guild members and its leaders is usually good. Members in this type of guild are commonly very helpful of each other.

If you’re a new gamer and need help getting started or if you’re a veteran gamer and just like helping people then this may be the type of guild for you. The casual gamer often chooses this type of guild.

Some social guilds:
Brotherhood of Steel
Crusaders of the Golden Phoenix
Splintered Orcs Clan

The Elite Guild:
This guild type is usually fairly small. This guild specifically looks for high calibur players and people. This is often done through a rigorous and difficult application system. They will commonly be very good in small group pvp; it is also normal for pvp to be a major focus of this type of guild. They will often excel in pvp and pve, the reasons for this being:
1. They are always playing with the same people (due to the smaller size there is less circulation amongst who you play with) and therefore are better able to work together as a team.
2. Their members will typically be very well equipped, due to its small size the guild is more likely to help it’s members obtain the ‘best’ equipment.
3. Most of the members in this type of guild will be veteran gamers. This adds an overall heightened level of experience throughout the guild.

This type of guild is best suited for veteran gamers who are interested in doing things efficiently. The hardcore gamer often chooses this type of guild.

Some elite guilds:
The Frozen Legion
Art of Pain Clan

The Empire Guild:
This guild type is typically very large, often consisting of 200+ members. These types of guilds have a tendency to focus on large events. Such as raiding the ‘hardest’ area’s or ‘zerging’ in pvp warfare. This type of guild is made up of anyone and everyone no matter the skill level. Usually it is relatively easy to gain acceptance into this type of guild. Be aware that often times this guild does not offer much help to individual members. This is directly related to the sheer size of the guild.
If your interested in participating in large pvp battles or large raids into the most dangerous dungeons and do not require much individual help then this type of guild may be for you.

Some empire guilds:
Blood Moon Clan
The Blooded
United Legions
Praetorian Guards

Regardless of your particular play style there is a guild out there for everyone. A guild can heighten your gaming experience, allow you to form new relationships, make new friends and have experiences you otherwise would not have.
More guild listings can be found in our guild database.

You can discuss this article here.








Player vs. Player Combat
Written by Drack on February 17 2004.

In this article I will discuss the types of PvP and what can be expected from each as far as playing experience. As always the views and opinions in this article are solely mine and in no way necessarily reflect the views and opinions of WCC.

In the MMORPG market we as customers have seen many types of approaches to PvP. Ranging from Everquest's dueling arenas to Shadowbane's player city sieges. Among other examples include DAoC's faction based PvP restricted to 'battle zones' and AO's tower defense PvP, also restricted to battle zones.

Some players argue that the best PvP is unrestricted, however I disagree. I've had my fair share of experience in all forms of PvP. From that experience I have come to the conclusion that unrestricted PvP, while fun at times, promotes griefing. It takes literally no skill to grief players and is nothing but an outlet for disgruntled gamers, raging with hormones, to vent their anger.

Since unrestricted PvP promotes such behavior I am more in favor of faction based PvP. Let's take a quick look at the different types of PvP:

Free for all:

You are able to attack anyone of any faction anywhere, anytime. This type of PvP is very popular among griefers. It allows griefers the freedom to form 'gank' squads and camp high traffic areas where they can kill solo people for sport and or loot.

Faction vs. Faction 'RESTRICTED':

You are only able to attack members of the opposing faction in designated battle zones. Currently, this is the type of PvP available in World of Warcraft. Basically if/when you want to experience PvP you will travel to one of the designated battle zones and either group up with other faction members or head out solo in search of opponents to test your steel against.

Faction vs. Faction 'UNRESTRICTED':

You are able to attack members of the opposing faction anywhere, anytime. This type of PvP has not yet been introduced in any MMORPG that I know of, yet it has the potential to be one of the more rewarding and fun types of PvP 'IF' it is implemented correctly. For example while you are able to enter enemy territory it would get increasingly difficult to survive. This would be done by setting up NPC guards at key locations that grow increasingly more powerful as you get deeper into the territory. Thus allowing for large raids to theoretically invade some of the major enemies cities while at the same time making it extremely difficult for small 'gank' squads to roam freely.

Dueling:

You are only able to attack someone if both of you agree to fight, usually initiated by targeting each other and typing /duel. This type of PvP is also said to be available in World of Warcraft. However we do not know yet if this is done by using a /duel command of some kind or going to an arena and battling it out as gladiators.

While I would like to see a server with unrestricted FvF, the current system WoW has implemented will still be fun and here’s why. It is said that approximately 10-15% of the world in WoW is set aside as battle zones designed for PvP. First you must understand that the world in WoW is enormous, so 10-15% is a fairly huge chunk of land. Since the battle zones are designated it will concentrate all the PvP into those areas making it that much easier to find other people to fight. Anyone whose ever played Shadowbane knows what its like to chase a group of enemies for 2 hours only to have them recall back home 30 seconds before you catch up to them. The people you will encounter in these battle zones will be players who want to fight and will likely offer more of a challenge then pummeling the level 3 newbie that happens to wander past your gank squad.

-Drack- 






Journey to the Deadmines
Written by TorN on April 1 2004.

Hello WoW fans from all over the world and welcome to this chronicle. As you know, we have been summoned in the World of Warcraft for almost two weeks now. We have fought terrible monsters, exterminated several populations of beasts, got rid of swarms of thieves and outlaws, mined in the deepest dungeons and forged deadly blades, saved numerous endangered people and helped a countless number of non playing characters in need of vengeance, items or a simple service.

However, the tale I’m going to tell you about today is very special. It’s nothing compared to those previous achievements. This one is a glorious quest; one of the only large scale journeys available at this moment on the lands of Azeroth. But enough teasing; let’s start at the beginning of the story…

All the events started when we were exploring the territory of Westfall. In this devastated and agricultural zone stands a big tower on the top of the Sentinel Hill. This is where we wrote the first quest logs in our journal. At that moment, we did not know what we had just signed for. We were asked to kill several bandits, defias trappers and then defias highwaymen. Upon reception of the proof, we were paid good money, items and excellent experience reward. Quest after quest, we returned to the same guard who kept asking us to do something else service after service. However, a story was simultaneously being built in front of our eyes; this wasn’t a simple quest.

After some time, we were asked to intercept a messenger who carried an important letter. The information it contained was essential to incriminate someone. When we returned it to the guard, we were asked to be the bodyguards of an informer who was going to lead us to the hideout of the defias. Back to the guard to report the location, we were asked to kill the head of the organization, VanCleef. This is where this elite quest really started; the Deadmines.

In this well hidden cave, under the ghost city of Moonbrook, buffed versions of defias (level+) were very active mining and blocking our path to the portal that would lead us to the quest instance.



Once we found the path and entered the portal, we found ourselves, a little group of 4 brave adventurers, in our private instance. Being the first time I was in such place, I was very impressed. We hack and slash’ed our way through this mining area by pulling each miner and watcher. Soon, we arrived in front of a bigger room. An ogre, Rhahk’Zor, accompanied by two defias watchmen sidekicks, was guarding a large locked door leading to a deeper portion of the mines.



The fight was violent, but not as hard as expected for our experienced group. After looting the corpses, we proceeded to the next area of the mines. We then thought we were very near of our goal: VanCleef. Boy we were wrong!

The next area was easy; miners, watchers, etc… Nothing we couldn’t single or double pull. We reached another door at the end of the tunnel.



Where could it lead? … directly to the Mast Room. We really had no idea what was waiting for us then as nobody in the party had ever done the quest before. We discovered a room where working some Goblin Woodcarvers and a huge mechanical enemy: Sneed’s Shredder. Although this mini-boss was harder than the ogre, we killed it without remorse and looted some nice items.



As we passed through the Mast Room doors, we entered another part of the tunnels. This seemed never-ending. However, we passed without too much effort. We did have times we thought we’d die on the spot and fail the quest, but with two paladins in the group, resurrections and heals were abundant. This was starting to be really challenging for our relatively small group (most parties venturing in the mines are 5 high level players).

We reached another door. No, we were not quite near the end yet. Real life hours had passed already. When the doors opened, we were truly amazed by what we saw; the famous Goblin foundry.




Engineer goblins in this area were quite tough with their guns and mechanical minions they’d send attack us. At the bottom of the forge was a named goblin, the master of the forge, guarding the door to yet another mine. Looting his dead body after a long and tough fight did pay back; a very nice ring dropped. Rings are not common in the World of Warcraft.

Venturing in the next area, we were very happy to see the tunnel’s end on the mini-map. However, to our disappointment, we were not even near the completion of the quest; a locked door was blocking our progress. We noticed a canon pointed at it.



It required defias canon powder to fire the bullet and possibly blow the door. We searched the vicinity and found a barrel of gunpowder guarded by a few miners. Back to the canon, we used the powder, fired, and the door exploded in pieces.

At that moment, a voice coming from the back of the next cave yelled “You there! Check out that noise.” It sounded like a tauren voice. In any case, we knew from the chat window that Mr. Smite heard the canon and asked some minions to investigate.

A few seconds later, a couple of defias pirates jumped on us. We defeated them, but the effect of surprise gave them a fair advantage. A few steps forward revealed a gigantic cavern where a super sized battleship had docked.

On the wooden docks, pirates and their famous parrot pets attacked us.




Unfortunately, a member of the party had to leave, but it did not discourage us; we had invested so much time! We were not going to turn around and leave the place. We wanted VanCleef’s head!

So we continued our way, up to the end of the docks; a footbridge allowed us to go up on the boat. But a big problem was standing before our party: Mr. Smite, the ship’s first mate. He was a very tough customer; a few stealth defias blackguards were guarding him and attacked us at the moment we thought we could defeat Mr. Smite easily because he was alone.



That was a ferocious fight; Mr. Smite had to change his weapon two or three times during the fight; starting with a single blade, then soon two big and sharpened blades and finally a very heavy two-handed mace. As I said, this battle was very hard for a small party of only three active members. Thanks to Twister’s soulstones who resurrected us during the fight, we finally killed Mr. Smite. That was a great victory; it did left a few scars on us though, but the loot was excellent and well worth the risk.

The ship bridge has two or three stages, to make the path to VanCleef longer. However, I had the feeling he was hiding in that small hut on top of the boat. The next named monster we encountered was Cookie, the ship’s cook. This murloc seemed to pop from nowhere, but still, we managed to kill this funny creature. The loot it gave was this nice kitchen object “Cookie Tenderizer”.



The World of Warcraft is full of these kinds of items that prove that the game is not about seriousness and all about entertainment.



Anyway, back to the story, we vanquished a couple of pirates and goblin shipbuilders and reached the last stage of the ship. At the top, three monsters were patrolling the hut. Out of soulstones, tired after about 4 hours of questing into the instance, we concluded we had no chance to beat all the three guards at the same time; nobody had a mesmerizing type of spell either to control the crowd. We decided to rush in the hut and try to jump on VanCleef, loot his head, and escape as fast as we could. However, it did not happen like it was planned; a couple of stealth defias were guarding VanCleef and the patrol soon attacked us too. Yes, we died. I used the last soulstone Twister had just crafted to resurrect the party. No, we just couldn’t do it. And the monsters were respawning behind us, leaving us no escape route backward.

The path to exit blocked, we decided to try the portal spell warlock can cast to summon a player to his location. We asked an external warlock to teleport us out. Twister was the first to escape this damned place. Monsters were respawning right behind us; they were missing reagents to summon another portal. At the very last second, when I had already used a potion, my invincibility spells and exhausted all my health points and mana, I was teleported out of the instance. What a relief!

We did not succeed in killing VanCleef yesterday. We’re sorry to have no screenshot to present you of him; we were trying to stay alive… However, the quest is not over; we’ll have our vengeance. We’ll come back stronger and prepared. Soon. Pretty soon…


Thanks to Mookie from Eternal Bloodlust and Infinity from Project Mayhem for their support during this quest. 







Jason's Beta Report (Gnome Warlock Levels 1 - 15)
Written by Jason on April 17 2004.

At the point of writing – at this very moment – I have just booted up this game for the first time. After these years of waiting, alt+tabbing out of World of Warcraft to start this article is one of the hardest things I have ever had to do. Ever. But, luckily for all of you, I stupidly gave up procrastination for lent. But my loss is your gain, and because I went through so much pain to let you know what the deal is, I implore you to read through this, and I can guarantee you a better understanding of what WoW really is.

Now, before I go into the depth of the game, let me just point out a few aesthetic qualities of WoW that I find incredible. The first and most obvious is the visual beauty of the game. What you’ve seen in screenshots is nothing. It’s almost indescribable, in the traditional sense of the word, in that the fluidity of motion, and the way everything blends together, and how every piece of landscape, and every detail is gifted with a place in this world with a great sense of purpose and unity. Not to mention that the GUI is very pleasing to the eye. Everything from the font used in the game to the backgrounds, and even shape and art style of the portraits makes everything seem authentically Warcraft. Lets just say that the last game I played was Asheron’s Call 2, and this time I wasn’t desperately grasping for some way to change the font, man was that GUI ugly. The other thing I really was impressed with was my character’s walking animation. WoW does an excellent job of not being overly realistic, while at the same time keeping me from having the urge to try to physically bend my character’s arms so that he doesn’t look quite as retarded when he’s running. Back to the point though, I had absolutely nothing negative to say about the way World of Warcraft looked and felt. But I’m sure you’ve heard all of this several times by now, so with that said, let’s move on!

Being the Gnome Warlock that I was, my journeys began near Iron Forge in the realm of Dun Morogh. The way the world and maps are broken down is that each realm has one or more big towns in it. The bigger realms (I.E. Elwynn Forest, where Stormwind is located) may have more than one. This makes it very easy to make your way through the world , and you’d be surprised how many realms there are to explore. The first thing I did was take a look around – take in the scenery. My snowy and mountainous surroundings seemed overwhelming, especially from the point of view of my Gnome! Instinctively, as I knew that I was playing an MMORPG, I ran off into the snowy fields to begin hacking away. That’s when it hit me; yes, it took that long. I’m playing World of Warcraft, there are quests to be had! So I ran back to town, and there, my adventure began. What follows is my take on several of the more important aspects of World of Warcraft when compared to other MMORPGs, including the pros and cons of the quest system, combat system, game mechanics, and Warlock specific information.



Quest System

Throughout my travels and experiences up to level 15, I have constantly been itinerant. I have never been without quests, and this is because quests are everywhere. The best thing about the system in place in World of Warcraft is how the game seamlessly leads you from quest center to quest center. For example, when first starting off in Dun Morogh, I was sent on a quest to a cave somewhere in the northwest and the quest giver gave me directions using landmarks, one of which was a small village. Upon arriving at this village I was presented with two more NPC’s with quite a bit for me to do! It’s obvious how much time Blizzard spent on this system because of the way that each quest I’m on seems to be perfect for my level, almost as if the quests were especially tailored just for me! This type of guidance is excellent, especially because it’s also guiding other similar levels to the same locations, so that you’re always able to find a group. I must say though, that it gets a little more dispersed at the higher levels, because you are presented with more choices, but that doesn’t stop me from seeing another player all the time in the same realm as me because he’s been guided in a similar way.

You must understand though, this system is not without fault, and I can’t say for sure whether Blizzard can come up with a way to remedy this situation or not, nor can I say if anyone else is having this same problem, but there have been a few times when I’ve been loaded with quests too high level for me, and have been left in limbo between two realms. I had just reached a point like that at level 15 where I had quested in Westfall, a realm geared towards levels 11 to 15 or 16 (with some harder quests geared towards levels 20 – 25), and had run out of quests, so I ventured to Redridge, only to learn that this area is geared towards levels 18 to 22. So there seemed to be a gap between 15 and 18 that I must now surpass simply by power leveling, which any MMORPG player knows can get tedious.

Overall though, I must admit that this system is extremely well implemented and polished, not only for a beta test, but for a retail game. If Blizzard can find some way to keep you occupied during that limbo period, all will be well, and judging from the rest of the game, I’m sure it’ll be cake for Blizzard.



Combat System

When I first began playing World of Warcraft I had been out of the MMORPG game for quite some time, and had forgotten the exact pacing that these games typically moved at, so I couldn’t compare speeds all that well. Let me tell you though, I reloaded Dark Age of Camelot as a Ranger, and I found myself timing the period of time that my character just stood there accepting blows from the enemy before reloading his bow and firing back. There’s hardly any of that in World of Warcraft, however it’s not blazingly fast, and the attacks don’t flow into each other like I wanted them to, but it’s still a huge step up from the ridiculous fighting styles of other games in the genre. I can remember a certain sibling of mine watching me play Dark Age of Camelot over my shoulder and exclaiming how stupid the fighting looked. I got no such lip when said sibling watched me play World of Warcraft, so that has to tell you something. Speed isn’t the only difference, the way World of Warcraft almost requires you to use abilities at strategic moments during battle is genious. As a Warlock, I was constantly maneuvering my character, and manipulating my pet to draw the blows while I pummeled the creature from a distance. The excellent array of Damage over Time spells also made for some good clean fun.

Honestly, right now, as hard as I try I can’t find any kinks in the combat system. I like it just the way it is, maybe a bit faster, and if they had the attacks flowing into each other I’d like it more, but it’s a preference, some people like things slow.

Warlock Specific Information

At the time of writing, I’ve been revering in my own glory as I’ve realized that I’ve made the correct decision in choosing a Warlock over a Mage. Warlocks have pets, something I’ve always been partial to, as well as strong spells, and a lot of status spells such as fear and weakness. What I love about being a Warlock is that if you’re good at what you do, and effective at using your pet as a tank, you can solo enemies far higher in level than you are, in fact at level 15 I’ve killed monsters at level 20 without breaking a sweat. Sometimes things can go wrong though, and if you’re lazy and just decide to pummel a monster with Direct Damage spells, the monster will jump all over you, and no matter how many times your pet hits it, it will keep smashing you into the ground. Warlocks require patience, time and careful planning, and if that’s your cup of tea, like it is mine, I encourage you to start off using one.

The only thing I can say that I don’t like about being a Warlock is that we do less damage, and are quite frail beings. Armor is relatively scarce, not to mention we’re one of the slower classes with an inability to run. When things get dicey, Warlocks always stick it out ‘till the bitter end. Again though, if you can manipulate your pet correctly, you can get out of a lot of sticky situations. It’s all about patience, planning, and strategy.



Game Mechanics

Good Points – I’m happy with the skill system right now, which basically entails gaining prowess in the skills that one uses. Note the difference between skills and abilities/spells, in that skills have to do with weapon prowess etcetera, while abilities can be used in battle against an opponent.

Bad Points – I’m not very happy with the way experience is distributed throughout a group as of right now, as I don’t like the way gained experience is halved when grouped. Something to the tune of ¾ experience while grouped sounds good to me.

Next Entry in Game Mechanics: - The new skill system - The rest system - Trade skills - More!

And finally... what you SHOULDN'T expect from World of Warcraft

World of Warcraft is not the savior of the MMORPG genre. There, I said it. This game isn't something totally different from anything you've ever played before. From the beginning Blizzard said that they weren't remaking this genre, and they really haven't, so DO NOT expect that. What you can expect is an MMORPG with many of the aspects of MMORPGs that nobody likes removed. That's what Blizzard said they were going to do, and by god they've done it. What World of Warcraft is is a much needed shot in the arm for this genre. It throws out all the old rules and remakes them, but it doesn't remove the rules that everyone liked! And in this way, it prevails with flying colors. What you CAN expect from World of Warcraft is a whole lot of fun. I know I'm enjoying it, and I'm sure you will too.



Okay folks, that about wraps up my knowledge of this game up to this point in time. It’s obvious that I have a long ways to go, and that there’s still a lot to learn, so keep checking back at WarcraftCentral.Com, and you’ll see another entry soon!












The patch is here!
Posted by Splunkey on Tuesday August 17 23:59 CST, Comments (0) 	
		
	The patch is almost ready to download ^^

    There is nothing wrong with the servers. Do not attempt to adjust your monitor. We control the horizontal and the vertical. The servers are down because we have started preparing them for the new World of Warcraft beta patch! When they come back up, you’ll be able to log on and begin downloading the patch. We don’t expect this to be too long; we’ll post another message here when they’re ready.




Check it out =^.^=
Main page
Forum thread


EDIT:

You can Now download the patch ^^ 753 mb =(

    The World of Warcraft servers are back up and are ready for you to connect and start downloading the new patch. The patch is approximately 800MB, so please be prepared for a sizable download. PLEASE NOTE that we’ll be doing some final tuning on the servers for several hours, so it’s likely that you will have finished downloading the patch before you’re actually able to log back on and start playing again. We’ll post another message here when the servers are ready for you to reconnect. For those of you who are interested in seeing what’s in store with this patch, we will be posting the patch notes here shortly.

    Please keep in mind that the World of Warcraft beta is a work in progress, and we continue to find your even-tempered constructive feedback very helpful. If you don’t like something about the new patch, please take a deep breath, count to 10 slowly, and then send us a /suggest in-game with a balanced presentation of your thoughts. We continue to read every suggestion and bug submission. 


