KyanMehwulfe's Adventures - 03-24-2004
By KyanMehwulfe


KyanMehwulfe, Dwarf Warrior of Khaz Modan.


Dun Morogh, this may be my new all time fantasy location. It just has such a perfect blend of enviroments, inhabitants, general theme, and design. The map is from in-game with my key locations editted in. Not fully complete, obvious outposts and guard stations are missing. The important quest and adventure locations are there though. Those that I know of atleast. This game rewards a serious explorer, some of these places are well hidden, which is credit to how intense the detail per square foot is.



Protect the Herd - Quest



The are two approaches to Vagash's lair. About 200 yards to the west, there is an actual path in a sharp valley. But where's the fun it that, why not just pick your way up the steep mountainside?


Up on the hilltop, we see the ranch below and the lair of this beast.


Now as simple as this quest is, I'm worried. Vagash is "Lv12+", the "+" meaning "Elite". According to the WoW Guide site, if solo I should be "much higher level" or I'll "get smashed".

Since there is no XP loss, I don't worry at all. If the game had XP Loss, I would not of risked the challenge, and I would of missed out on the adventure. While the death penatly removes risks, it allows you to have more fun, instead of being scared to take risks. Just wanted to point out that two-edged sword, the "sense of challenge and adventure" is definitely not absent with no XP loss.

Quickly using a wetstone on my axe to sharpen in a little extra, I step towards the entrance of his cave. "Stupid yeti blockhead!", I yell at the top of my lungs. Vagash can't resist, he charges!


I start the fight in Defensive Stance, and quickly use my Defense Debuff attack, and immediatly switch to Battle Stance. He stuns me once. I bleed him and proceed to go blow for blow. He breaths his frosty breath on me. On our first stand, he has me almost dead and he's still at 65% health. So I bleed him once more and use my speed debuff on him, retreat back towards the cliff, down my path a little, and quickly use first aid. He's still coming at me, and his health is regerating. I charge back up before I'm at full health and engage again. I basically repeat the same thing I had just done, this time leaving him at 35%. I don't get much time this time though, and at half health, he is one me again.

I'm somewhat unsure if I'm going to survive. We exchange attacks a few times, he's getting very low on health. I may outlast, I may not... if he stuns me again, I may be yeti food. I smash his once in the leg, crippling him... and he runs in fear! I quickly use this chance to use a bandage and then run him down!


I'm victorious, Vagash is dead. I quickly chopped of a piece of his body, look inside his lair, and head back down for my reward. I choose a very nice rogue shirt that I'll trade later today and a large chuck of XP. Not only was it very fun, but I made very effecient character progress as well.


This is what I love about the quests in WoW. If this was DAOC, I'd probably probably go kill plain old wendigos for an hour until this guy popped, or I'd sit around until a certian time waiting for the spawn. The basic premise in WoW would still be the same, "Kill Vagash", but in DAOC, it's boring, in WoW, it's a damn fun adventure. Even something as straigt forward as this.

---
Various Screenshots
---
Rest of this I'll post the photos I took from the rest of my adventures today with corresponding comments. Three screenshots be row, the comments being consecutive.


1) Miner vs Finger Wiggler!
2) Any ore in that tail?
3) The butcher walks to the table (note the flies buzzing over the meat), chops once with his cleaver, grabs a piece of meat, puts it on the cauldron, and repeats.
4) Couldn't resist... it just smelled too damn good!


1) Slowly made my way up the side of this valley and am rewarded this a great view. In the back on the left, you see the tunnel to Loch Modan. On the right, the famous blacksmith Ironband's house, now overrun by dark iron dwarves (though I did killed their boss and steal their Umbral Ore earlier in the day).
2) Same viewpoint but looking to the west towards Ironforge. You can see the quarry on the left, where the Alliance vs Trogg battle was shot in the March 2003 Gameplay video.


1) This is such a charming dwarf shot, very typical. At first glance, would assume such a cannon is for the defense of the town. On closer inspection, it looks like it's purpose is to make sure that if they are to die, they're taking their massive keg of ale with them.
2) Night sky horizon above Ironforge.
3) King of Ironforge, Magni Bronzebeard. You may remember his brother Muradin from the Reign of Chaos.


1-3) Three cool dwarves in Ironforge.


1) Bounty Hunters rejoice, this wanted post is not just for decoration.
2) House in Loch Modan. Owned I assume by the crazy dwarf who set up that cannon.


1) Just arriving back from Loch Modan, traveling through the northern guard station back to Dun Morogh. Lot of little details inside of that cannon. Rifles mounted on tripods, boxes moved in front to serve as defense for the shooter.
2) Mountaineer just outside the other side of the northern tunnel, on his patrol route, firing at a beast in the forest.


1) Don Morogh mining quarry, same as shown far above. Lot of little details put into the area. Lot of games would of been content with just throwing a few generic models down and getting to work on their next mob camp.
2) But here you can tell it was hand designed with logic and reason. Boxes full of goods, cranes to lift the boxes, massive steam furnace for structures down below in the mine (with regular intervals of released steam)
3) Tavern of Kharanos. You'll see this building structure again in the game, but you won't see an exact clone, each has it's own unique design of furnishment to better suit the stories of the owners and village.


1) A wenigo lets loose a mighty roar deep in the Grizzled Cavern.
2) High atop the the now dead and ancient volcano that Ironforge is built in.

Please note that the opinions expressed in our articles are solely those of the speaker and do not necessarily represent those of IGN or VN.

Comments (25):

<< Prev | 1 | 2 | Next >>

		
	
Posted by ForgetMyName at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

Jesus, this is pittiful. I know your excited about the game, and you can say or describe your adventures any way you choose, but heres some advice: Why don't u take a creative writing course instead of playing WoW so much, you sound like an idiot, dood - nah, an idiot on crack, dood. This is easily the most poorly written journal entry I have come across in the last week. I won't go into the details, but I am sure everyone can see that this journal seems like it was written by a nine year old - and you know what, nine year ols' can't write for shit, much less put together a WoW journal entry meant to *excite* seventeen, eighteen, and twenty year olds'. This article should serve as a reminder to everyone proving that too much video games can make u "dumber."

Please, pay attention in school, especially if u plan on describing your WoW adventures in *journals* (which means in words). I know that very few people like to read poorly written journals, because it seriously detracts from the exciting aspects of the game.
	

	
Posted by goober_rocks at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

Uh... I liked it.
	
	
Posted by Comedian at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

Kyan, thank you for taking the time to write up this beta journal. I especially enjoyed the number of excellent screenshots you posted.

Please ignore the comments by the yahoo who posted first here. He's obviously trolling to get people worked up. And I wouldn't worry too much about taking writing advice from someone who spells "you" as "u" and "you're" as "your". I'd rather read your text than his any day.
		
	
Posted by YouWish at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

ForgetMyName, could you be any dumber? You harrass KyanMehwulfe for their writing style, yet you spell dude "dood" and say u instead of you. Grow up, take some lessons yourself, and come back when you've found a brain that'll actually work in your head.
	
	
Posted by Maedhros at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

LOL @ youwish. Even tho I dont like flamers like the one above, you are hilarious. Ever hear of sarcasm? thats what he was using. He was spelling dood like that on purpose.
		
	
Posted by Teacher at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

I don't think so Maedhros. The dood spelling may or may not be sarcasm, but ForgotMyName also makes the common mistake that others in his age group make.

ForgotMyName does not know the difference between “your” vs. “you're” and for that he should not be making any posts criticizing others (sarcasm or not).

	
Posted by Saz at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

owned^
	
	
Posted by DeathDealer at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

Could ForgetMyName be any more of a prick?! Great commentary Kyan. Keep the Beta experiences coming!
		
	
Posted by Ben at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

could anyone give any more of a crap about grammer?
	

Posted by Adarai at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

Thank you for a wonderful account of your experiences in WoW. You showed and discussed things that weren't discussed in other journals, and I appreciate your originality. You seem very perceptive, and things you noticed and recounted to us make the game seem that much more real. Again, thank you.
	

Posted by KyanMehwulfe at 0000-00-00 00:00:00

This isn't written as a journal actually. It's one of my early A.M. posts I put up on the boards before I go to sleep. This one can be seen here: http://vnboards.ign.com/WoW_General_Board/b19789/66171752/p1 I never submitted it, in fact I just found out it was added to this Journal database a few minutes ago from a friend. Not that I mind in the least. I gladly made the offer to Elena that she can use anything I post on this site as she cares to.

If you don't like what I write, avoid my topics, as the act of spending a couple hours converting, uploading, and commenting on my screenshots is as much charity as you can expect from me. I offer game information, not fairy tales, so if that's what you thirst, I won't quench your desires.

In the least, try to remember your name next time. I can understand that you're nervous, but anonymity is so unbecoming of confidence.

	
Posted by Clippe at 2004-04-10 20:18:01

lol told him^...great commentary, especially the screens!
	
	
Posted by YiPPi Cai yO JO at 2004-04-12 06:14:03

why is ForgetMyName's brain so much worth?? it's never been used...
ho ho ho
	
	
	
Posted by The_Light at 2004-04-14 11:57:17

I very much enjoyed your great screenshots, they remined me why i am exited about this game.
	
		

		
	
Posted by Corathius at 2004-04-15 22:52:01

Touche Kyan...

I would also like to add my thanks for a very enlightening description of WoW. Keep up the good work.
	
		

		
	
Posted by FOrgetMENAME is Stuuupid at 2004-04-24 10:01:40

Good Journal i think that wast mostly correct cool screenshots im in beta 2 kud i maybe get ur name so we can chat? online maybe work together cus im in kaz modan as well!
	
		

		
	
Posted by FOrgetMENAME is Stuuupid at 2004-04-24 12:22:06

Good Journal i think that wast mostly correct cool screenshots im in beta 2 kud i maybe get ur name so we can chat? online maybe work together cus im in kaz modan as well!
	
		

		
	
Posted by spin]Reaper at 2004-05-18 03:54:28

nice journal, keep up the good work!

it's d00d not dood u idiot
	
		

		
	
Posted by bill at 2004-05-28 15:21:46

that was touching i think im gona cry o guys who ever is reading this you can make your own islands in world of warcraft
	
		

		
	
Posted by hunter_vner at 2004-07-19 09:40:33

great one!
Im actually on the horde side but after taking a look at this journal, I want to try the alliance.
Keep up the good work.

ps: for the flamers, if you dont like the journal, feel free to try the magic cure: alt+f4
this cure every "jalousy" desease side-effects only 













Mithan's Journal: #2 - 03-20-2004
By Mithan

Welcome to Mithan's Journal #2. 
Today I was going to finally get my thoughts and opinions down on WoW, but due to a bunch of requests, I have decided to take more screenshots.  These screenshots are mostly targeted to showing different parts of WoW's attention to detail, a bit on the world and more shots with the interface, which a lot of people have asked for.  I have included commentary here to give you a bit of background on each shot.
 
	This screenshot shows off a "Wanted Sign" outside Westbrook Garrison that gives you a quest to go out and kill an "Elite" Mob by the name of Hogger, which is really a boss Mob and requires a group (or a higher level than the boss itself).  Hogger himself is level 11, and when I attacked him solo, at level 8, he kept knocking me down, though I was able to get his life down to about 75% before he killed me. 

I hear Wanted Signs are located in various places, though this is the first one I noticed so far.
	I took this screenshot from the top of Westbrook Garrison.  The reason I took this shot is because I think it gives a good idea of how huge the scale of this game is.  See the tiny little NPC's down at the bottom?  Yes, this place is big... 

For those of you worried about a tiny world, let me assure you that WoW is not tiny. 
	This shot shows off Blizzards attention to detail.  Notice the harvested wheat?  Scarecrow in the back?  Different types of trees?  Detail on the house?  Fence, etc? 
	I took this shot to show how game "looks".  You cans see windmills in the distance, a Tower about a half mile away in the back left, a guy on the road, and various other details.
	Here is another shot that shows off the scale of the game and gives a good general idea of the feel of the game.  It seems like WoW has a very populated World.  There is always something off in the distance to keep you exploring. 
	Here is a picture of a Harvest Golem, taken just to the left of the house shown two screenshots above.  This particular Golem was level 11, and I killed him at level 8.  Notice the Rage bar?  and how my abilities are "lighting up" in the interface at the bottom?  As your rage increases, your abilities are activated for use. The show below only has 1 ability "lit up", due to not having enough rage.
	This picture shows a Young Fleshripper, which seem to vary from level 10 to 18 in this area. 

What these 2 Combat screenshots don't show is how well the Models move and the death effects.
	This is a picture taken swimming.  I have panned the camera down so you can under the water.  Again, Blizzard hasn't skimped, and the water is filled with weeds and even the support beams for the dock on the right. 
	This is the Warrior Trainer in Greenshire.  When you click on him, he shows you what Abilities you can train, (asuming you have the money and level to purchase them).  You can also train Skills too (like Axe or Two Handed Weapon) at a cost of Skill Points.
Abilities/Skills you can buy are in Green, skills you cant buy are in red.  You can filter out the skills too.
	This is a picture of the Character window.  The Ability window is on the left.  If you look closely at the Character Window, you can see all sorts of useful information, including your stats, equipment you are using, level and resists. 

This shot also shows Equipment Stats.  If you move your mouse over a piece of equipment, you get a window that pops up with the stats.
	This picture shows the Ability and Skill Window.  Skills raise on their own as you use them, though you need to train more skills from the Warrior Trainer (pictures above). 

Also shown here is what happens if you move your mouse over an Ability.  In this shot, a little window shows up with info on the Strike ability.
	This shows the Talent window.  Talens in "white" are talents you have trained. Anything in green is a talent you can train.  At the bottom you can see that I have 10 Talent Points.  Raising a talent 1 rank, requires 10 talent points. 

Clicking on a Talen also shows what it does.
	This is the Quest window.  The information given here is complete quest information, including rewards.  It also tracks your milestones/progress for bounty or collection type quests. The reward for completing the quest is also show if there is a reward.  Quests are displayed by area, and the color of the quest itself, shows how difficulty it is.  Yes, you can even fail quests and redo them on demand.
	This is a NPC Shopkeeper window and its basic.  Move your mouse over an item to see what it is and the stats associated with it.  To sell to the Vendor, all you need to do is right click on an item in your inventory bag (bottom right). 


Please note that the opinions expressed in our articles are solely those of the speaker and do not necessarily represent those of IGN or VN.












Mithan's Journal #4 - 04-16-2004
By Mithan

I have finally found the time to update my Beta Journal with more screenshots, however I have once again delayed posting "thoughts and opinion's" on World of Warcraft, mostly due to the large amount of time it has taken me to write up everything I wanted to write up.  So, instead I have collected 25 more screenshots for you folks. 


Small Status Report:
So, overall how are things going with World of Warcraft? 
Excellent.

I am happy to report that as of 2 days ago, I have invested about 100 hours into the game over the last 3 weeks, reaching level 23 with my Warrior.  My feelings about the game are actually stronger now than they were when I first got into the beta.  This game is just pure high-quality fun at this point and I am really enjoying it so far. 

One thing I do want to speak about is the controversial new element introduced with the new push:
Forced Resting.

Personally, I think this has been blown totally out of proportion by some in the Community.  While I believe that complaining in a beta is a GOOD thing (how else are they going to find and change game imbalances), lets not forget that the rest/fatigue system will be changed a lot in the coming weeks.  However, even as it stands now, it really isn't that bad when you look at it objectively.  I find it amusing that some people have come right out to say that WoW now "sucks" because of this in-beta Fatigue system.  Nothing could be further from the truth. 

Anyways, on to the screen shots:
As before, these screenshots were taken with all WoW Options cranked to the max, 1280x1024 resolution, 4xAA and 8x AS.  They have been rendered down to 75% quality and reduced in size a bit to save on space (the original TGA files are 5 megs in size).  

Posted by Scissors at 2004-04-28 14:55:26

It seems like a decent game but theres alot better mmorpg's out there. The graphics aren't too fancy and that in-game resting is really annoying and doesn't add much on to the 'reality' of the game. Still like most good mmorpgs it's alright
	
		

		
	
Posted by Slaine_the_Insane at 2004-05-10 04:10:21

It looks good. Alot better than AC1 lol but thats not hard :)
	
		

		
	
Posted by SykoSoul at 2004-05-10 17:14:57

the resting system is just fine. IRL you need 8 hours of sleep (or it is recomended... especially after a full days work). I do all of my resting while I myself and sleeping and out of game. By the time I wake up or get back from work/school my character is well rested and I am playing with no worries at 200% XP gain. And with the changes that are coming (I think they are making it so you can move up in stages instead of being at normal for 7 hours then having to leave the inn and staying at normal.. probably leaving at rested status or something similar to that :)
	
		

		
	
Posted by Nessling at 2004-06-16 05:32:33

I am very excited by the idea of this enforced resting. As a casual MMORPGer I am fed up of seeing people fly past you in equipment/exp etc just becase they are able to play 24/7 and I am not so this is brilliant. As someone has already said - rest when you are not physically at the pc when you yourself are resting. Also as someone that actually likes to ROLEPLAY then the idea of being able to use towns as a town for rest and recuperation and the odd jug of brew rather than a quick stop over to dump stuff in the back and run out again really impresses me to. The scope for Roleplaying is far greater due to enforced resting periods.
	
		

		
	
Posted by Dolphyn at 2004-07-14 09:52:12

I'm unfortunately not in beta, but have been following WoW as closely as possible. I think forced resting is a great idea. It adds lots of RP value for starters and a certain degree of realism IMHO. Also it seems from what you guys are saying is that you can rest but still be IN the game, so it will hopefully encourage other acitivites that aren't power-leveling related.
	
		

		
	
Posted by Masema at 2004-08-12 20:42:54

I belive this is going to be one of THE games to play when it comes out. Most MMORPGs are bad, final fantasy 11, Lineage 2, etc. This and EQ2 will be fun, 2bad I am not going to play EQ2. And BTW The graphics are pretty good if cranked up to max settings, and plus Warcraft has always had a uniqe look to it and it shows in WoW.
	
		

		
	
Posted by ApocalypticA at 2004-08-23 04:49:15

I think this game kicks ass now and when it comes out cuz its only in beta but ive read alot about this game its just plain awesome. eq2 and my opinion only has great graphics and good player customizeation if u read there Faq it really is gonna be a shity game come on no pvp LoL and there is other things i thought was just stupid. I think blizzard makes eq2 look like 6 yr old rejects made it Just Plain stupid !! I dont know y ppl think eq2 is gonna be so great its seems to plain/boring for me. Dont and wont play eq2 even for free Wow all the way 100% remember blizz cant make a shity game it anit in there Blood ! 







Mithan's Journal #3 - 03-28-2004
By Mithan

Today I am updating my Beta Journal with 37 new screenshots! These shots are taken from various areas in WoW, including the Duskwood, Stranglethorn Vale, Redridge Mountains, Burning Steppes and the Barrens area on the Kalimdor Continent.

If you have any questions, feel free to ask in this thread on the WoW Vault General Forum.

Note on Screenshots:
These have been converted to 75% quality with ACDSee 6.0, in an effort to save on file size, so that will affect visual quality some











Mithan's Journal: #1 - 03-19-2004
By Mithan

Welcome to the first edition of my Beta Journal.
Today, due to time constraints (ya ya I am playing :)) I am just going to post some screenshots for everybody. 

First 3 shots here are the Login Screen, Character Selection and Character Creation. 

These next 3 shots are Northshire Abbey (where you start), the Options Panel and a picture of a park in Stormwind.

Another park in Stormwind and 2 pictures from the Dwarfs quarters, showing off "pollution" from the forges.  Great attention to detail...

A Crypt in Stormwind, bugged and a picture of the Alter of Storms between Ironforge and Stormwind.

Orc encampment? Flying out of Ironforge and on the dock fishing, near Goldshire.

Marshal McBride in Northshire Abbey, a stroll in Stormwind and surrounded in the Abbey.

Mine south of Goldshire, in the Mine, and Goldshire.

Resurrect? 












Elena's First Impressions - 03-19-2004
By Elena

Here is a summary of some of my first impressions of World of Warcraft beta.

The main thing I notice when playing is how incredibly rich and detailed the environment is. It's not just stretches of land between towns... there are lots of shrines and houses and NPCs wandering around and such. You can find treasure chests in different locations, which contain useful loot. You can burn yourself by clicking on a fire and can sit down in chairs. You even make footprints in the snow and can see your breath when it's cold. The world is also extremely colorful as most of you probably already know. There are lots of different environments. Dun Morogh, Elwynn Forest, and Teldrassil are so different. The look, the ambiant sounds, the creatures, everything.

I was a little disappointed with character creation. Other than race, hair color and style is what sets characters apart the most. You cannot adjust height or weight, so all characters of the same race and gender have the same body type. It would have been nice to have a little variety. You can also choose from a set of faces, which mostly I thought were just okay, not great. I wish I could have zoomed in on the character model or rotated it when I was choosing the appearance.

Character actions are pretty fluid. The emotes are great and vary depending on the race and gender. The female Gnome dance is kind of a shake your booty type of dance, while the female Night Elf dance is much more sensual. The male Night Elves dance like Michael Jackson! When you're sitting around chatting with someone, your character will make motions as you speak. If what you say has a question mark at the end, the motion is a shrug.

There are tons of quests to do. Sometimes you have two or three going at once, and there's almost always another one ready for you when you finish one. The quest rewards are useful too. So far I've gotten mostly experience and either armor/weapon or some cash. I did do a Warlock quest for a Summon Imp scroll, which allowed my character to learn the Summon Imp spell! Most of the beginner quests are either kill quests or item gathering. I did have one quest as a Night Elf which required me to redeem myself for helping out this somewhat shady character earlier. I had to trick him by giving him some seeds that turned him into a toad!

The gameplay reminds me a little of DAoC, but much faster paced. Regeneration is very fast! I'm not sure how it is at higher levels, but at lower levels I have all these regeneration items I don't even need to use. Getting around is also a lot faster than it was in DAoC.

The stealth action makes you go mostly transparent and your speed is reduced by 50%. Your character looks like it's actually sneaking around rather than just moving slowly. I didn't have much luck using stealth on aggressive creatures. Usually by the time I got into position for a backstab (from behind), they would see me and attack.

So far I almost never look at my experience bar. I'm having so much fun questing, exploring, and killing stuff that it has always been a surprise when I level. At the lower levels, you gain enough experience simply through questing. However, you could just hunt for experience if you wanted to.

Combat is very fast paced. I've played a mage, a warlock, and a rogue so far. It's not a hit attack button and sit back kind of game. You're always using your special moves and fights do not last very long. Spellcasting is interrupted some when in melee combat, but there is enough time to still get in spells between attacks, it just takes a little longer. I've taken on two monsters at a time without too much trouble. I imagine if you are more powerful, you could easily fight more. Monsters have levels, but you're usually killing things slightly above your level.

Loot at lower levels is either food/drink, armor, weapons, or trophies. Many of the trophies are used in quests, but most I have just been selling. Perhaps they are used in crafting, but I haven't gotten into that yet. The armor and weapons (armor is more common) are usually about right for your level. I have seen three types of armor: cloth, leather, and chain. Since armor is class restricted, you can usually only use some of it. I have not noticed a major difference in combat when my armor level goes up. It seems to be based more on skills than equipment. However, equipment may make more of a difference at higher levels.

One thing I did find a little confusing is navigation. The mini map is always pointing north, and you are a little arrow that rotates in the center depending on which way you are facing. It takes some getting used to after AC where the direction you are facing is always up on the radar. The maps for the areas I have been in aren't very detailed, but you can see area maps for different regions. It doesn't look like they are all finished, so I'm hoping the map will improve throughout beta. One good thing about the maps is that it is easy to tell where the major towns are and your own position, which is marked with a small green circle.

This is beta, but I have run into very few bugs or problems. I did have a hard time logging in the first time, but that may have been simply due to the server load. I haven't had any problems since. The only bug that isn't minor that I've run into is getting stuck in the water. I had to type /stuck, which takes at least a minute to complete, and then it kills you (leaving you unstuck). However, the death penalty is so easy that it wasn't really a big deal. When you die you respawn at the closest bind stone. At lower levels, it isn't very far. When you are a ghost, you run much faster, so it is easy to get back to your body. The one time I did use the healer to revive me, the experience loss was minimal, probably no more than a couple of kills worth.

One last thing I want to share. When I was playing a Night Elf, in a town called Dolanaar, there is a huge friendly creature that looks like a big tree with purple leaves. He is called "Ancient Protector" (level 90!), and he stomps around town patrolling. The ground actually shakes when he walks and when an enemy gets near town, he kills it. Just an example of the rich, dynamic environment.

I don't think I need to tell you how fun the game is. I've only experienced the lower levels so far, but if the higher levels are as much fun, I could see myself playing this game for quite a while.














Mugwurt's Journal #1 - 03-20-2004
By Mugwurt

I am running the game on a P4 3ghz, 1gb RAM, ATI Radeon 9800 PRO. I run in 1280x1024 with maxxed settings, and the game runs like buttah! I would crank it up to 1600x1200, but the text gets too small for my aging eyes.

Overall, I am pretty impresses so far. Blizz definitely seems to be adhering to their mantra for games "Easy to learn, difficult to master". They have alot of mechanisms to help MMO-n00bs be able to get into the game and learn things quickly. They have also done a good job of progressing the player through new, higher-level areas as needed, via quests.

The game is absolutely 'alive'. The environments are hands-down the most detailed, rich, and 'alive' of any MMO, and most single player games. The decision to use the Warcraft "cartoonish" art style has afforded them the polys to be able to make the environments full of stuff, and not just large empty areas, like you see in many MMO's. Good decision, imo.

The fastest, and most interesting way to earn xp and progress levels is through questing. Every area is full of NPCs who have quests available for you. These NPCs are easily identifiable by a yellow exclamation point over their heads (brilliant move, imo). Each quest gives a little backstory, and shows you before you accept it what your reward will be. This way you can pick and choose what quests you want to do, and not waste your time on a quest that gives you something you don't need. Blizz has done an excellent job of balancing the quests, where when you finish the last avilable quest in one area, you have earned enough xp and levels to move onto a more difficult area. Then it sends you on a quest to a new area, where you find a new city and lots of new quests that are appropriate for your new level range. The quests have show a pretty good deal of variety thus far. Some are delivery (usually the ones that send you to a new area), some are kill-task type quests, some are escorting NPC's, some are exploration quests, etc. For levels 1-15 the quests pretty much had you exploring the current zone to complete them. 15+ I have begun coming across more quests that require travleing to other areas.

The world is one large persistent space, aside from some dungeons. Some of the instanced dungeons require zoning, but many of the regular dungeons are simply part of the world. And ther are ALOT of dungeons, in every area, for all level ranges. At level 5 you get your first quest to venture into the depths of the newbie dungeons.

At this phase in beta, Blizz is testing Alliance races/classes only, and keeping the level cap at 30. In a few weeks, they will be re-opening the Horde, and upping the level cap I believe. When that happens I'll know more about the PvP. At this point all I have seen is duels.







Behind the Keyboard - The Things We Take With Us
By Zophar

It's been a while since I've written anything. Blame it on school, the holidays, sickness or just plain laziness... but anyway, here I am, time to write installment #2. The thing that makes my column hard to write is that while it isn't directly about WoW, the things I talk about are my hopes and dreams about the game, and eventually experiences within it. It's hard to do that when everyone basically wants the same thing, and you're sitting in a chair trying to write about something different.

So what can I write that's different? Well, it came to me a few weeks ago when playing two games that I honestly haven't really touched in at least a year, the first of which was Ultima Online. When UO came out it was already my third MMORPG experience (the first two being AOL:NWN and Gemstone III), and it was so amazingly simple, but at the same time it was so complex, that I would stay up for hours on end exploring some dungeon or trying to get that last skill point. Eventually the game started to slide on the rocks, shaken not stirred, and catered more and more to a "carebear" crowd that myself, my guild, and most of my friends didn't like. Then came Siege Perilous, the end all of PvP servers. It was so hardcore that most people couldn't last without their coveted safe zones and guard protection. But eventually "better" games came out, and OSI made a few stupid moves to save their game and turned it into nothing more than a virtual chatroom with graphics and neon clothing.

The second game, one that some of you might have heard of (most of you probably haven't), is Ragnarok Online. This is the ultimate carebear game. While most of the characters look basically the same, there are hundreds of different combinations of equipment and headgear to outfit yourself and become more unique. The game strives on word of mouth, and almost its entire population (probably around 6000 on at any time right now, and closer to 10,000 per server when it was open beta) came from people who "heard about it from a friend, who heard about it from a friend, who heard about it from a friend." So you might ask, why did mister ub3r p33k4y enjoy such a glorified "virtual chatroom with graphics and neon clothing?" Hey, hey, calm down, I'm getting there. This game has, hands down, absolutely the most style of any game I have ever played before in my life. This includes console and other PC games as well. The graphics are BEAUTIFUL. There are so many dynamic abilities and options of game play from only six classes that games like DAoC and EQ, with their massive amounts of classes, would be jealous.

So what is the point of all this? What did I come across that made me write this article? Well, last week I found myself in the role of a designer on a game that's not coming out for a long time, in a company you have never heard of (insert corporate cover-up story here). When brainstorming, we asked what was it about other games that made you want to keep coming back? What things do you take with you that you will never forget and always wish you could do in future games? For UO it was its sheer simplicity, easy leveling curve, and infinite customization between characters. For RO it was its unique style and game play, and beautiful graphics. Just thinking about the greatness of the aforementioned ideas made me scurry off to the bathroom like a school boy before I wet my pants. Then I proceeded to download and install the games (for UO folks, I'm playing on IPY) because I remembered how much I loved them.

I guess if I had to pick the best qualities from other games, I'd have to say it would be EQ's epic zones, DAoC's quest system, AC2's ability to create an entire game with absolutely nothing interesting in it, and SB's city building and unique worlds. But I'd rather not. When I'm thinking about things that remind me of how awesome and fun to play a game is, there's not really much in any of these games, aside from what I mentioned, that makes me say OMG I WANT TO PLAY THAT GAME AGAIN!!!! I bet a lot of you will disagree, and find stuff from these games that you enjoyed, but hey, everyone has their own bag.

So come! Share your favorite memories that bring tears to your eye and make you wish that you could go back!













Behind the Keyboard - World of Warcraft and the Failure of Online Games
By Zophar

I can still remember my first online gaming experience, I was probably 12 years old and stumbled upon a small game on AOL known as Neverwinter Nights. I remember reading all the D&D; guides in the hobby shop with all the other nerdy kids. For its time it was an awesome game. The graphics were way sub par, but it had something that only chat rooms had previously been able to accomplish; a community. Community is the first step in making a successful game. NWN also had awesome PvP; this was the reason behind the community. Oddly enough, everyone loved each other because they got to kill each other. Twisted, sure, but it worked.

Not long after NWN came the first of the "Big 3" as they would later be called. Ultima Online. It took that community that NWN had and added more. It added housing, crafting, guilds, dungeons, and once again PvP. Everquest followed a few years later and we found ourselves smack in the middle of a new and (for the time) beautiful 3D online experience. It was the first successful online game to utilize zones and eveling... which also led to the "treadmill" and (ugh) camping. It also had all of the cool stuff the previous two games had, a little less on the PvP aspect, but it sill rocked hardcore. Asheron’s Call was next in line, it had the happy little medium between UO and EQ, a mix of what the both of them had, and it did things a little differently at the same time. All in all, things were looking great for the MMORPG community; it was going to be the next big thing.

The next big thing. This is where the problem lies, and where I got the title for the article. World of Warcraft and failure don't really have anything in common at this point (but I'm sure it made you want to read this just so you could flame me for bashing it... haha sucker!), but every other game since Asheron's Call does. Making online games became the cool thing to do. Companies were popping up all across the map, strutting their stuff and thumping their chests over the awesomeness of their Big 3 clone. There was nothing new in the market. Everyone tried to sell their version of EQ with just a tiny little catch which they thought would make it sell better (like robots, everybody loves games with robots). In some cases it did but for the most part the market has become bland with little difference between new titles, and way too much hype.

For this essay I am going to take two games and basically rip them apart to prove my point. Star Wars Galaxies was all the hype about two months ago, until of course people's free trial ended (yeah okay, a lot of people still play it). It promised to offer tons of new things that would make it better than anything you have played before!!! (Notice my enthusiasm.) What did it turn out to be? Well, I never played it, but first hand accounts now refer to it as "Star Wars Crafting: Terrain Engine and Chat Client." I sure am glad I didn't waste my not-so-hard earned cash on it.

Next up for bashing is Shadowbane. I am kind of a hypocrite for writing this next paragraph because I still play Shadowbane, and for the most part enjoy it, but it did have a moderate amount of failure. After almost 5 years of development and delayed release time, Shadowbane was released and become the 2nd worst release of all time, right next to Anarchy Online (which has since recovered from its failures). Shadowbane was laggy, unstable, unbalanced and filled with exploits. All the things that you would expect to have been fixed in a beta test. Yeah, they are working on fixing all of that now, hell they even have an expansion coming up. But still, it had a moderate amount of failure in its own right.

Finally, time to get to the good stuff. This is what the article should have been titled: Why World of Warcraft will succeed where every game before it has not. Okay, so I haven't played it yet, and I am just working off of a hunch here, but I have played every Blizzard game to date, and I think I know the company well enough to make some assumptions.

Why WoW will succeed: Leveling. Leveling, according to Blizzard is going to be not as intensive as other games. It is going to be fun, and it is going to be easy. It will be great for the casual gamer. This is something that many people have forgotten in the past. Playing a game is supposed to be FUN, not tedious. Blizzard has tons of experience in this department. They made RTS games, they know all about leveling up, becoming better quickly, and how to do it without making it a pain in the you know what. Look at Warcraft 3. Ranking buildings, leveling up Heroes, it was a breeze, and it was fun because you were rewarded for having a maxed out hero. Sure that was probably a bit easier than it will be in WoW, but still, I feel that Blizzard has the incentive to do it the right way, the first time.

Why WoW will succeed: Role playing. Everyone loves the lore involved with Warcraft. It is simple, it won’t give you a headache trying to figure it all out, and it leaves tons of room for modifications and space for players to create things of their own. I'm going to step back to Shadowbane for a minute and point out how they had an amazing set of lore for the game. The problem was that they didn't implement it very well. You were punished for being a lore guild. It was too tricky to gather enough support to become successful, and every non-lore guild was a step ahead of you because they could take anyone. Blizzard won’t fail here. Their lore is simple enough that anyone can pick it up, yet advanced enough to promote conflict between the different alliances without isolating the players. It is evident in their previous games. In Starcraft all three sides had something interesting about them that made you want to try it out, and of course dislike the other two factions. Their RTS games all have great stories.

Why WoW will succeed: Dungeons. Dungeons are great. My best experiences in UO were inside the depths of their dungeons. Blizzard is showing us something with dungeons that I believe is now also available in Everquest. You know what you are getting yourself into before you even step into the dungeon. You know if it’s going to kick your ass, you know what you will be rewarded with when you finish, and you are never let down. Hell, you can even have your very own dungeon for you and your friends, just so you don't have to spend hours and hours and hours camping the boss dragon just to have some guy ninja loot the 733t 3qu1pm3nt from you. While there are some points of instanced dungeons that I do not agree with, mainly the lack of interaction between you and people you don’t know within the depths, I believe it will be a great success. And anyway, if you don’t like instancing there are going to be a good number of public dungeons available, also with cool things to be done inside.

Why WoW will succeed: Quests. A lot of games have quests. Most of those games suck. No, I'm just kidding, there are a lot of good quest games, but they all have one problem. After starting a quest in Dark Age of Camelot I often found myself slamming my head against the desk. I'm supposed to talk to who? Where? I've never even heard of that zone! What? All I get for spending 10 hours out of my life is this damn bracelet? ... I quit. I'm sure we can all share our quest frustration stories, registering to web sites to read about how to complete a quest and talking to other frustrated people about their quest problems. NO MORE! World of Warcraft quests are straight forward. Everything you need to do to complete the quest is outlined right smack in front of your face, no messing around with codes you need a secret ring from a box of Azeroth Cereal to decode. Not only are these quests simple to understand, but you know what you will be getting before you do it, so you know if it is even worth your time. Sometimes you even get to choose your reward. How awesome is that? Man, I wish I could play this game right now.

Why WoW will succeed: Because it is Blizzard. Let's face it, even with their inability to keep a scheduled release date, Blizzard has never disappointed me in any way, ever. I'm like that hopeless fanboi, because no matter what game they release, I will buy it. Hell, Blizzard presents: The Barbie Game even looks appealing. This is the reason why I have so much faith in this game, when a company has a history of releasing awesome products; it's hard to feel differently.

Well, now you know why I think World of Warcraft will be a huge success, and why other games have failed (or succeeded) in the past. What do you think?

Discuss this article here!
















Captain on the Bridge - The First 100 Days
By Captain Kryptonite

Whew! The sound and fury of this year’s E3 Expo is officially over, and there is a dearth of new information about World of Warcraft all over the net. With all this new information on the specifics of World of Warcraft and its systems, I decided to write this column that has nothing to do with any of this new information. This column, the First 100 Days, is about the importance of the launch in any MMORPG's success. We’ll take a look at some of the more successful launches and some of the duds, and try to evaluate where WoW stands at this point.

MMORPG fans have complained about a number of aspects of this particular genre. One particular outcry that goes out again and again is about the tendency of companies to release unfinished products. This isn’t exclusive to the MMORPG genre, of course, but it happens with nearly every game that has come down the pipe in recent years. I don’t know when exactly the companies decided that they were better off getting a game out the door than getting it done, but nearly all of them are guilty of this particular infraction. Let’s look at a couple of specific examples.

Star Wars Galaxies. This was the last title to receive as much hype as World of Warcraft is presently receiving. It seemed like a no-brainer to be a big success, with the biggest franchise in entertainment history partnered with the most successful MMORPG company out there, you would think that this game couldn’t help but be great. Unfortunately for us, the gamers, it seemed that SWG’s team felt it couldn’t miss either. Rather than take the extra time to work out all the bugs and get all the major systems in the release version of the game, they released a half-finished product. Looking back now, it’s a wonder they thought they could get away with releasing a game with so little content and so few of the most important aspects of the Star Wars Universe intact. How could they release a game where you couldn’t be a Jedi? What if Peter Jackson had release The Return of the King without Golumn and told us he planned to insert Golumn at a later date? Would we have stood for that? No. Aside from the Jedi issue, there was very little to do in SWG when it was released. It was pretty, sure, but devoid of much in the way of fun.

Now then, many would argue that SWG has improved a lot since release, and this is certainly true. But the damage had already been done. I for one never plan to go back to that game regardless of how it improves in the future. I felt I got burned on that one, and I know I’m not alone. They have recovered to a certain degree and do have a lot of subscribers, but imagine the success they could have had if the game had been released in the state it is in now. It would be HUGE.

Horizons. Here is another not-so-fine example of a bad launch. For one, Horizons was very nearly unplayable at release. They had all sorts of problems with just getting people in the game, much less having fun. The bugs had a field day in Horizons and turned a lot of players off immediately. Not only was this product bug-laden, it also had the same lack of content that hurt SWG so much. Again, there was very little to actually DO in the game. Sure the graphics were pretty enough and their crafting system was great, but where were the quests? Where were the dungeons? Where was the LOOT?!? One of the greatest draws of Horizons was the potential to play a dragon and be able to fly around. This, like the Jedi in SWG, was NOT in the game at launch. This was a much touted “feature” of the game and wasn’t even available until much after release. Sure, you could play a dragon, but you could never grow up. So Horizons became a world of Peter Pan Dragons with little or no content.

Unlike SWG, however, Horizons has yet to really recover from their poor launch. Certainly the developers claim they are doing very well, but I suspect they are very much wrong in this assumption. Just taking a gander at the Horizons boards here on the vault network will show you what these errors did to the success of Horizons.

Are there any games that have had a successful launch and seen the rewards of such a launch? The answer is yes. Dark Age of Camelot had one of the smoothest launches of any game in the genre, and Mythic Entertainment is still reaping the rewards. The game was bug-free for the most part, and most importantly people were able to get in and play from day one. There was also a great deal of content and “stuff to do” from the beginning. Although the content didn’t compare to older titles like Asheron’s Call, it certainly had a good variety of tasks, quests, and hunting grounds to keep players interested. Since launch, Mythic has spent a great deal of time tweaking the game and adding new content to appease the masses. And masses they have, with one of the largest subscriber bases around. There are certainly a number of problems with this title that turned myself and others away, but for the most part they have managed to uphold strong support for the game. They got it right.

Another more recent title, City of Heroes, had a pretty smooth launch as well. From the start, there is a good deal to keep your hero occupied, and it launched fairly bug-free as well. I can’t comment too extensively on this title, as it is still VERY early, but I would guess it will have a pretty good amount of success in the industry. Its subscriber numbers are already very high, over 100,000, and early reviews of the title are very positive as well.

So I set out to see if World of Warcraft seemed to be moving in the direction of a smooth launch. At this point, I would answer that question with a resounding yes. From all accounts, WoW is easy to get into and pretty stable, especially considering it is only a beta product. Though there are server crashes, there aren’t a whole lot of them, and the server has been staying up pretty much 24/7 for some time now. Early accounts also indicate a great deal of lower level content is already in the game. The people I talked with also stressed that the content that is in now is superior to many of that found in already released titles. Very few of the players have become disenchanted/bored with the game. There is little to do for the highest level players in the game, but Blizzard has indicated that higher level contact is in the pipeline for the near future. This is not suprising given that they just recently raised the level cap. There are also many important game systems that have yet to make an appearance, namely PvP, but Blizzard has been adamant that this stuff will be in by release. Supposedly they, still have 4 months or more of beta, so I don’t doubt their conviction.

Blizzard also has the reputation as one of the few game companies that doesn’t release a title until “it’s done.” Warcraft III is a fine example of a game that was oft delayed, but well worth the wait. Blizzard releases clean, complete products, and I don’t think World of Warcraft will be any exception.

It comes down to this: companies MUST learn that we want better launch products. The First 100 Days are the most important days for a fledgling MMORPG, regardless of what license you have to back it up. Though games in the early days, like Everquest and Asheron’s Call were able to get away with less than stable, complete releases, those days are over. For many of us, those were our first forays into the genre, and we were too enamored with the dynamics of this new type of game to worry too much about content or bugs. We had rose-colored glasses on, if you will. Now, though, much of the community is both more experienced and jaded to a certain degree. The success, or lack thereof, of many titles in the genre is evidence of the fact that although you can recover from a bad launch to a certain degree, you certainly cannot overcome a bad launch quite so easily. We’re tired of getting burned. Give us the games you promised, not IOUs.

















Captain on the Bridge - Have at you!! PvP and the World of Warcraft
By Captain Kryptonite

It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to see a theme to my columns thus far. I’m a casual gamer, and I’m here to share my hopes that we casual types get a fair shake in World of Warcraft. In my opinion, too many of the rewards in these games are reserved for those players with the most time on their hands. As I said before, I don’t expect to get the same rewards as those who play all the time, but I’d at least like a chance to compete for the same rewards.

With that in mind, I spent some time perusing the various WoW message boards looking for a hot topic to address. PvP. Topics don’t get much hotter than that! This also lends me a unique forum as so little is known about PvP in World of Warcraft. Perhaps there is still time to fill the ethereal developer’s heads with some of my ideas, complaints, and hopes.

My experience with real PvP in MMORPGs has been kind of limited. The reason for this is not for any want of trying, but rather because these systems so often favor the powergamer. My first love in the MMORPG world was Asheron’s Call. I never really got the chance to enjoy PvP in that game, because by the time I really got into the game and wanted to try it, I didn’t have much of a chance against the competition. There were many different problems that contributed to this, but the primary reasons were that the powergamer types were so far ahead of me in levels and had better equipment, and also because PvP favored mages in such a huge way in that game. Now then, I don’t blame the developers for this, as AC was one of the real “first gen” MMORPGs, and also because PvP in AC was more of an afterthought rather than an extensive game system.

My real game experience in the world of PvP comes from Dark Age of Camelot. PvP in DAoC is just the opposite of how it is in AC in that it is a major component of the game, and much of the game is built around its PvP system. I enjoyed PvP to a limited degree in DAoC, but it had some definite drawbacks. For one, it relied even more on character levels and play time. If you were a casual gamer like myself, you couldn’t rely on being able to PvP with the powergamers. The problem was in the Realm Point system, wherein you gained realm points for killing other players in PvP battles. This was great in that there was a visceral reward for PvP rather than just besting your enemy, but created many problems in the long run. You could spend these aforementioned points on new abilities which made your character more powerful. The problem was the powergamers were able to amass a great deal of said points much quicker than the rest of the population, and hence were able to “purchase” many more of these skills much earlier than others. This brought about the bane of PvP- lack of balance.

This, however, is really only the beginning of the problems with DAoC’s system. Aside from realm points, in order to compete basic character levels played a huge role in your ability to succeed. If you really wanted to be effective in the full breadth of PvP, max level was nearly a requirement. To be sure, you could indeed participate to a certain degree at lower levels, but you would often find yourself overmatched by the higher levels you encountered.

So if there were so many problems, why do I spend so much time talking about their system? Because aside from the problems, I still see it as a great benchmark for other MMORPGs. It is still by far the most fun I’ve had in a PvP environment, they still did many things right. One important aspect is that PvP was pretty much consensual. You couldn’t be randomly attacked anywhere in the world, you had to go to PvP specific areas. It seems that this is an area which World of Warcraft will imitate as well. One of the few bits of information we have is that PvP will be totally consensual. It’s important to casual gamers and pretty much everyone else that we are never “forced” into PvP, or that we can’t be killed while off leveling or questing or whatnot. Another aspect I hope they imitate is the Battleground system from DAoC. In this system, you could go to a specific zone where only players of a certain level range were allowed to go to PvP. There were a few different level range battlegrounds, and it made for a MUCH more equal playing field overall. I also like the fact that PvP had visceral rewards, I just question their implementation.

So then, what would I like to see in PvP for WoW? First of all, I’d like to be able to PvP at nearly any level without fear of being overwhelmed by someone far senior in levels to me. It would be nice if I could go out at level 3 and fight other players of similar levels without the worry of a level 50 coming by and wiping the floor with us all. I would also like some kind of reward for PvP success. I hope the devs can find a way to reward players without unbalancing the game towards the highly successful powergamer PvPers. Perhaps rewards could consist of more “fluff” type things, as in special dye colors for armor or maybe special items for housing and to show off to friends. Maybe they will even have bounty items like ears from your prey ala Diablo. Another possibility would be special banners or titles that are a product of PvP success. Maybe they could even make your name well known to NPCs in enemy territories, but that may be wishing too much. I would basically like PvP to count for something, but not something that gives me a distinct advantage over other players. I’d like PvP success to be based on skill rather than time spent playing. (Though you could argue that skill is a product of time spent playing, and I have no problem with that.) Another nice touch would be some sort of PvP questing system. Perhaps they could incorporate some sort of Capture the Flag variant wherein your team of players must try to save prisoners held by the enemy and vice versa. The team that saves the most hostages in a specific time period wins. Lastly, I’d definitely like to see some sort of visible ranking system. I’d like to know who the best PvPers are, so I have a chance to try my luck against them on the battlefield.

In the end, it comes down to this. PvP can be the most exhilarating or most frustrating aspect of the game. Which way the pendulum swings in World of Warcraft we have yet to see. I just want PvP to be fair in WoW. I’m sure I’m not alone in this either. I don’t want the powergamers to have an advantage over me, the casual gamer, just because they were able to acquire skills or items that I had no chance at getting. If they beat me through skill, more power to them. I have no problem with that. Just don’t beat me strictly because you were able to spend twice as much time farming items or skills that made you significantly stronger than me, that I cannot abide. As always, feel free to contact me at captainkryptonite@hotmail.com with any questions or comments, and thanks for reading!



















Captain on the Bridge - Loot!!
By Captain Kryptonite

You can always tell how important something is to the MMORPG world. If we come up with one or more different ways to spell it or turn it into an acronym of some sorts, you know it’s important to us. Such is the case with loot, also known as lewt, or l00t or any number of silly misspellings. (I feel like I need to wash out my grammatical mouth after using these!) You might spend time attempting to get at the core philosophical values, which contribute to its importance in our minds, but this isn’t college. The fact of the matter is we just love to find neat stuff. Just like walking down the street and finding a twenty-dollar bill, there’s something visceral and exciting about loot. It’s is something that sustains the genre for many players. Hours of tedious hunting or questing is often forgotten if you can get one item out of it. So without too much more fanfare, let’s get to it; how is the loot in World of Warcraft?

Let’s talk about how loot has been handled by some of WoW’s forefathers. The first game that really grabbed me was Asheron’s Call. Anyone who has spent significant time with this title knows that it has one of the most robust loot “tables” in the genre. It has oodles of good quest items along with a healthy random loot system. Hunting was always fun in AC, for me at least, because of the constant chance that I could pull a nice, powerful item from that next mob or chest. Every MMORPG I have played since AC has let me down in some way in this department. DAoC had a decent loot system, where you could occasionally get a great random item, but it just didn’t stack up to AC’s system. The disturbing trend, however, is that some of the more recent games have discarded loot systems almost entirely. They have decided to concentrate on the quality of crafted items rather than good loot drops. Both SWG and Horizons suffered from this system. In my eyes, at least, it made both of these games all the less exciting to play. When I find I have to fight similar mobs over and over again in order to level, I would like some rewards included in the deal. Now I understand that they did this to facilitate the players who are crafting-centric, but in doing so they ignored an important reward system found in previous titles- now on to World of Warcraft.

First we’ll talk about the quest items. At this point in the beta test, people are generally happy with the quest rewards. There is some tweaking to be done, but according to the players I’ve talked with Blizzard has a good system on their hands. One great aspect of their system is that you often have a choice of quest rewards. So there may be a nice sword you can choose or perhaps a piece of armor. If there’s one thing I know about loot, it’s that choices are good. As far as tweaking, some of the testers I talked to did say that they found the quest rewards to be underwhelming sometimes. It seems some of the more difficult quests don’t always pay off loot-wise. I’m sure, however, that this is something that will be looked into during the beta phase.

Now let’s look at the random loot. As I said before, some recent games have very nearly done away with random loot, but this is not the case with World of Warcraft. You can in fact find useful items from plain old hunting, and for me at least this is a big selling point. Blizzard has quite a bit of experience with random loot generators, as anyone who’s played either of the Diablo games can attest. Blizzard has stated that you shouldn’t expect the volume of random loot available in these titles, but there is indeed a random loot system already enacted. Different monsters have different loot tables, as is the case with most MMORPGs, and you can find items like weapons with magical enchantments that are uniquely created by the system. Blizzard has also stated that there may be some items that are truly unique in that they will be limited to one instance per server. Wouldn’t that be nice to show off to your buddies?

So what about crafted loot? This is something that has become more important to the MMORPG community, and for good reason. There are many people who like to play these games not for the fighting but for the crafting. Unfortunately, this is one of the details about the game system about which information is still scarce. (Much like the PvP system, but that’s for another column.) Blizzard has stated, however, that crafted items will not ALWAYS be superior to looted items. This is an important element to the system. Games like SWG and Horizons suffered in my eyes because they were so reliant on the crafting system. What happens when all the crafters get bored? In World of Warcraft it seems the “best” version of any given item, like a bracer for instance, may be a crafted bracer when you are at 30th level, but at 40th level the best item for you may come from a quest. I’ll try to address the craft system in more detail in a future column.

So there has been a lot of hemming and hawing, but what does it all mean? At this early stage of beta, I would say that overall I have a good feeling about the potential for the loot/item system in World of Warcraft. Blizzard is taking the time to make sure that the loot in WoW is worthwhile, whether it’s the quest loot, random lewt, or crafted l00t. (Ack, there I go again!) This brings me to why I feel so good about the future of this game. Blizzard has a track record of thorough, polished works, and I don’t think WoW will be any exception. Now I don’t expect WoW to compare to Asheron’s Call in regards to loot, but at this point it certainly seems a far cry better than the systems in SWG or Horizons. Besides- I don’t know about you guys, but I can’t wait to pull my first Mace of Lifestealing +2! 



















Captain on the Bridge - The Solo Gamer and World of Warcraft
By Captain Kryptonite

Given my first column on the casual gamer in World of Warcraft, I thought it would be appropriate to take a look at the viability of the solo player in the game as well. These two things often go hand in hand, because if you only have an hour or two to play, you don’t really have time to look for a group. MMORPGs are kind of a mixed bag when it comes to the solo gamer. There are some that are VERY solo friendly, like the Asheron’s Call series and Horizons, while others aren’t nearly as solo friendly, like Everquest and Dark Age of Camelot. So where does World of Warcraft stack up? Read on and I’ll try to enlighten you.

The first question I asked is “how is down time for the solo player?” Down time can be all right if you’re in a group and chatting, but if you’re all alone in the world, down time can be horrendous. Thankfully, there are ways in WoW to minimize down time, even if playing alone. Food and drink are used to help regenerate your vitals quicker, and early indications are that if you carry a decent stock of such items, the action can be nearly constant. About the only down time related complaint I've heard is about the corpse run. You can’t really do much as a ghost, so those times when you’re out in the wilds looking for your body can be rather uneventful and boring.

Next I wanted to find out if it is even feasible to play and “level” on your own. The answers I got were that soloing is generally efficient in the early levels, but later on grouping becomes more paramount. This seems to place WoW in the common MMORPG mold. The early levels are easily soloed, but the more experience you need to level, the more reliant you are on groups. All agreed, however, that soloing through all thirty available levels (keep in mind there is presently a level cap of 30 in the beta test) is possible, but it’s often MUCH faster if you’re with a group.

One big drawback in many of the presently available MMORPGs is that certain classes really cannot solo much at all. Some of the support type classes, like healers or mages, are often entirely reliant on groups for experience in other games. Blizzard has said from the start that they wanted every class to be not only capable of soloing, but also able to solo well. At this point, certain classes are slightly better solo artists, like the warrior, but every one of them can solo fairly well. This includes the straight healing classes as well as the rogue. Some classes require a bit more skill to solo well, but all of them can get the job done.

Next I wanted to find out if quests were doable all by your lonesome. Questing, for me, is often the most rewarding aspect of MMORPGs. I’ve always enjoyed both the stories involved and the visceral rewards in terms of experience and/or items. Similar to previous issues, most of the quests early in your WoW career (below level 20) are fairly easy to run solo. As you get to higher levels, however, it behooves you to get some friends to come along and help on some of the tougher quests. There is also a system in the game that tells you the relative difficulty of the quest. Certain colors indicate that a quest will be easier to complete, and if you stick to “green” quests you can solo them rather well for the most part. Another good aspect of the present quest system is the vast variety in quest types. There are your standard “kill X monsters” quests, but there are also many other types, including the “life” quests, which are epic, multi-part quests. It remains to be seen whether these quests will be solo friendly or not. All in all, the variety of different quest types along with the readily available difficulty rating will go a long way to help the solo gamer.

The last question I wanted to address is whether or not you should even bother playing if you only have an hour or two. This relates to my previous column, but also to the question of how solo friendly WoW is. The answers I got generally agreed that you can indeed get some things accomplished in a short amount of time. You can do some of the shorter quests or you can complete steps of the larger ones if your time is limited. You can also spend those short play sessions on some of the trade skills, though information on how well these work is still kind of sparse. If all else fails you can have fun just running out in the wilds looking for monsters to kill. One of the things that often drove me away from other games was this very issue. If I only had an hour or two and I knew I couldn’t get anything significant done in that time frame, I just didn’t bother. The more often this happened, the less likely I was to ever log in again. At this point, at least, it seems WoW is headed down a different road.

Overall, I think you solo gamers out there can take heart in some of the positive information coming out of the World of Warcraft beta at this time. Blizzard has said from the start that the solo gamer will be able to have fun in their game, and at this point that seems to be the case. Let’s hope they can make sure that this dynamic holds true into the higher levels, though, as that’s where I’ve often found myself up against the wall. Keep in mind I don’t expect soloing to be more effective than grouping, nor do I even expect it to be equally as effective. It’s only that I’d like the chance to accomplish something significant in game on my own, and I’m sure I’m not alone!

















Captain on the Bridge - Casual Gaming, Anyone?
By Captain Kryptonite

One of the major issues facing the MMORPG industry in general today is the place of the casual gamer. The way in which MMORPGs are presently set up generally favors the “hardcore” gaming community in a number of ways. Sometimes it’s in the form of special quests or events geared for only the most elite players. Other times it’s in player versus player conflict which often favors the players with the most time on their hands. I have personally always been what would be considered a “casual gamer,” so I feel the pain of the casual gaming community. We often feel left out of the loop, and we’re always interested in how new entries in the genre address our specific issues. So how will World of Warcraft appeal to the casual gamer, if at all?

Luckily, Blizzard realizes that this is an important segment of the market, and is targeting many of our concerns right out of the gate. For starters, Blizzard has stated that the main goal of WoW is to appeal to hardcore and casual gamers alike. They plan to make WoW enjoyable whether you plan to play for an hour or play a three-day marathon session. One of the primary problems I’ve had with other games in this genre is that I often have little more than an hour or so to play, yet rarely can much be accomplished in such a short while. From the sounds of it, Blizzard realizes this and will address it directly.

Okay, so Blizzard promises that their game will be casual gamer friendly. How? What do they plan on doing differently? The first place to look for answers is in the questing system. There will be a vast array of quests of varying difficulty and length. There will be simple one-part quests which can be completed in one of the aforementioned hour-long play sessions, as well as longer, multi-part quests to appeal to the hardcore crowd. In addition, there will be quests both for the solo player, which often goes hand in hand with the casual gamer, and group oriented missions. From early reports, there are a HUGE number of quests as well, which is basically good for everyone.

Blizzard has also made mention of some fundamental elements of gameplay that will appeal to the casual crowd. They plan to implement a faster paced combat system with less downtime. One of the banes of the casual gamer is downtime, as you don’t want to waste your short gaming session on your virtual rump regaining hitpoints or mana. Any reductions in downtime are welcome to the casual gamer.

Death in other games also usually contributes to downtime. Often death in MMORPGs forces the player to go on a hunt for a corpse or gravesite to regain experience and/or items lost on death. The way in which death works in World of Warcraft is quite different from the crowd. Essentially, you get a choice when you die between lost time and lost experience. The way it works is when you die you leave a corpse and become a ghost at the nearest graveyard. You can decide to make the run back to your body in corpse form, and only lose time. However, if you’d rather not make the run, you can be resurrected by an NPC healer for a modest hit to your experience.

Another appealing aspect of WoW is that you can untrain skills if you decide you’d like something else. This is a huge boon for the casual gamer. With little play time, the last thing you want is to end up with a gimpy character that can’t be changed. When you have little time to play, you really don’t enjoy finding that your hard work has been all for naught.

One of the most interesting things being said about WoW is that you will be able to gain experience through exploration. Simply finding a new area can net you an increase in your skills through experience, and this is very appealing to me. One of my personal favorite aspects of the MMORPG is the ability to explore. There is nothing quite like wandering off into unexplored territories in search of new landmarks. Being awarded experience for this behavior would be icing on the cake.

Overall, it sounds as though Blizzard is listening to the cries of casual gamers. From the quest system, to downtime, to alternate methods of gaining experience, it seems WoW could turn out to be very casual gamer friendly. Aside from all that, Blizzard has left the door open for special server types. That often refers to a roleplaying server or hardcore PvP server, but who’s to say they don’t have a server specifically engineered for the casual player in mind? It’s not that we, the casual gamers, want everything the hardcore get without work, but only that we want be able to enjoy the game at our own pace. We don’t want large portions of the game closed to us just because we aren’t able to play four hours a day, every day. After all, though we don’t play as much as the hardcore, we pay just as much! I’ll take another look at this issue as more information trickles in from beta.


























Svarra ToeHammer - Got Mugged?
By PallyDog

Got Mugged?

That’s right. A cute little dwarf like myself got mugged. It was a horrible experience let me tell you. You’re probably wondering what on earth would cause someone to mug a person as cute as myself.

Well, here’s how it happened: I was walking down the street on the west side of town in Anvilmar. I had just gotten back from an extensive quest that left me tired, dirty, hungry and quite parched. It was one of the more interesting quests I’ve been on, but that’s another story. So I was walking through town, past the market square, just enjoying the sounds and the sights of being inside civilization again. The colorful awnings, the street minstrels, the little old ladies barking louder than drill sergeants in an attempt to out sell each other.

The crowds though; there are times when I could do without crowds. I like lots of people but I don’t care to be run over. Some little pinched face gnome ran into me and tripped over my toe. He jumped up and tried to push me again. He called me lummox and yelled at me suggesting that I watch where I put my big feet. Snort. I have dainty feet for a dwarf, I’ll have you know! I was quite tempted to chase him down and prove it to him, including a well placed kick or two. I can’t stand rudeness.

I reined in my temper and stopped for a moment to smell the roses. Instead, I was assaulted with the smell of horse dung mingled with spices. And, something else.

Ale.

Aaaahh, ale! It had been months since I’d had a taste of that wonderful, rejuvenating liquid. Grandpa always said it would put hair on your chest. He gave me my first cup when I was three. Contrary to popular belief, however, I do not have a beard or a hairy chest.

I naturally followed my sniffer to The Poached Duck. I had to smile at the picture of a drunken duck lying belly up in an ale barrel hanging under the sign. I made a beeline up the stairs, through the doors and to the bar.

“Ale” I said.

“Would that be a cuppa, a mug or a keg?” The bartender was a mild looking fellow, with a pouchy tummy and sloppy smile.

“I’ll just take a mug to start with,” I told him and did my best to keep from drooling on the bar while he poured me a mug. I drank it. Hammers and chisels, it was fine stuff!! Now, I’m not one given to excess, but that was some of the best I’d tasted in a long while so I had to order another one.

I looked at the bartender again, “ ’nother mug, if you please?”

I drank it. And the next. After the fifth mug, I told myself I should be done. But, what was the harm? I decided to try one more. And while belching with bliss, I asked for my bill.

Apparently the price of ale had gone up while I was away. That or I’d had more than six mugs. Can’t quite remember. I wasn’t thinking clearly at that point. I just belched, errr, smiled and reached for my belt purse. It wasn’t there!

“Must be on the other side,” I thought. So I reached for my other side. It wasn’t there either. Come to think of it I hadn’t heard it jingle since that gnome, “Aaaarrrggg!!!! The little squash faced urchin stole my purse!!!”

Unfortunately, the bartender wasn’t sympathetic. “Mugs have to be paid fer,” he said. And his mild looking manner wasn’t quite so mild after all. I told him I’d be right back after I stopped at my Aunt Turnip’s and got the cash. He picked me up by the scruff and deposited me in a wash barrel. So paid, I did. I spent the night washing mugs to pay for the few I drank. Cruel and unusual punishment if you ask me. I got so sick of looking at mugs that haven’t had any ale since.

Yep, I got mugged all right!

















varra ToeHammer - Paladin
By PallyDog

As a small dwarfling, my childhood friend was Asha. We grew up in a small village not too far from Anvilmar. We made rock dolls together, created scrumptious mud pies, and played house, waiting for our warrior husbands to return with loot to decorate our play castle. I still remember very clearly the day we learned not all warriors return home.

We were on the hillside near our village when the men were called out to defend a nearby mine from an attack from the Rockjaw Trogg clan. It was routine. Alarms happened regularly, so we thought little of it and continued to play by the pile of rocks we called our castle. We had nothing to fear. Asha was pretending to burn her mud pie when wisps of smoke started streaking from the nearby huts. Shouts of alarm turned to screams of terror as we climbed out of the rocks to see what was amiss.

Frostmane trolls were attacking. There were no men, no warriors to stop them. All the able bodied fighters were defending the mine. Mothers hid their children, shoving them under blankets or into the shadows of the mud huts. We watched as the old basket lady was cut down, wielding only her cutting knife to protect her. Asha’s mother ran for us, screaming at us to hide. She never reached us. A troll removed her head from behind.

The last I saw of my friend Asha was her back as she ran towards her mother’s body. I heard her scream as the troll cut her down as well. I did not see it. Why? I was hidden in between the rocks of castle. Hiding. Terrified. I did nothing. I did not even pull my friend down beside me. Afraid that the troll would see us both, I let her go.

I sat huddled in my “castle” for hours and listened to the battle. No, it wasn’t a battle. It was a pillage. The trolls did as they chose, there was no one to fight them. They tired of their sport shortly before nightfall. It wasn’t until the next morning that warriors from Anvilmar reached us after seeing the smoke from the burning huts. But by then it was too late. There wasn’t much to do.

I will never forget that day. I will never forget the shame of my fear. Perhaps I was only a child, but I decided that day that fear would never again cripple me. I would not allow a friend to die while I hid. I would not stand by and watch the murder of the innocent. I would fight, even if it meant my own death.

I am Svarra ToeHammer, Paladin, sworn to defend those who can’t defend themselves. I am willing to give my life in battle against those who would harm that which I love. I will wield my hammer for justice. My courage shall never fail me and I will stand true. I will stand fast with faith in the grace of Light, an icon of courage and of strength.

~Svarra ToeHammer



















Svarra ToeHammer - Dear Grampa
By PallyDog

Dear Grampa,

Thanks for the birthday present. It’s nice to have my very own ram. He’s got to be the whitest ram I’ve ever seen. I decided to name him Snowbeard. Ha! I should have named him Rockhead or Senseless or StubbornPainInTheArse. Ugh.

I finally decided to break him in. I tried every trick you’ve ever taught me about training rams. I took it slow with him. I gentled him up and got him used to me, and got him used to the saddle a little at a time. I even made sure to reward him after each training session. Fat lot of good it did.

I finally decided it was time to give him a try, and by thunder, is my butt sore!!! I know I’ve got a fat butt, but the extra padding just didn’t help this time. He went straight up, came down sideways and did a spin to right, spin to the left, a nice series of crow hops and then suddenly went in reverse. Unfortunately, I was still going forward. It was three days before I got my armor back from the cleaners. Remind me not to wear my good chain next time.

It’s taken me longer than I had anticipated, but I can sit on him now. He doesn’t put up much of a fuss and he’s always happy for the Westfall wheat grass I save just for an after ride treat. He’s beginning to turn a little and he sure knows how to go forward, especially at a dead run. Well, so he doesn’t do much more than run actually, but that’s an improvement at least! Next week we’re going to work on stopping. I can’t always find a hay stack when I need to get off.

Much love Gramps. Thanks again for such a stubborn beast. He suits me fine. Say hello to the folks back home for me.

Love always,

Svarra ToeHammer


















Svarra ToeHammer - Guns Are the Dwarven Way
By PallyDog

Guns are the Dwarven Way

Well that's what Pap keeps telling me anyway. I must, however, beg to differ. Hammers are, in fact, the original Dwarven innovation. Stick. Rock. Tie them together with string. Voila! A smasher. Can't get any more inventive than that. I mean Muradin Bronzebeard had a favorite hammer! Hello Pappy! Wake up! If a hammer was good enough for a stalwart fellow like him, then it's good enough for me.

I am rather attached to my hammer at this point. I've had several. But Theobald is my favorite. The blue steel of his head has vanquished many a foe. Starting with their toes of course. Not tall enough to smash much else except knees. The two handed hasp is hand rubbed Teldrassil oak. Actually, if I'm mad enough I can swing him with one hand. Smash!

Guns are a pain. You have to carry ammo. You have to clean them. They're noisy. They lock up. They need regular repair. I mean heading back to Ironforge just to get your gun fixed 'cause there isn't an engineer in Dalarn anymore is a pain. I got to Durator and my gun malfunctioned once. Bah. I just used the handle to whack stuff after that.

I was down in Westfall once for some silly quest, and I ran into a Defias Henchman. Thought I'd try out the new musket that Pappy sent me. Even after making allowance for the crooked barrel, the wind, bullet velocity, etc etc, I still couldn't hit the bugger. He yelled at me to throw rocks and save money. Well I gave him a rock all right, attacked to the end of a three foot stick. Wasn't what he was expecting but he got a rock!

~ Svarra ToeHammer


















Svarra ToeHammer - Svarra ToeHammer and the Beard
By PallyDog

Bearded Dwarf? Who You Calling “Bearded” Buddy?

Ok, you’ve all heard it before. The jokes, the wise cracks, the oh-so-funny line about dwarven women. Well I do not have a beard, thank you very much, and if I hear one more smart alec newb asking me if I need a comb.... Grrrrrrrr.

I actually had this undead wench ask if I was looking for my parents, and then tell me she saw some humans on the other side of Dalarn. Needless to say, undead toes can be broken as easily as the regular kind. She won’t mess with a short chick and her hammer again. I’m tired of being compared to human women. So I’m going to let you in on a few things about dwarven women:

Human gals don’t have the curves I do. I may be short, but I’m plump. Human girls are also very picky eaters. Seriously, can’t take them anywhere for real food without having them ask for something special. No wonder they’re so scrawny. I also don’t stink like the troll girls do. Although, I must admit that’s not quite fair. No one ever taught the trolls proper hygiene. Oh yes, the undead girls stink too. And they have some fairly scary habits. Frankly I would think they’d give a guy the creeps. They certainly do me. Tauren women? No comment. Elves. Dang they sure are pretty huh? And stuck up. And they have these long ears. Well some guys might like long ears but it’s hard to get past the nose in the air, “I am special, beautiful, perfect and pretty darn sexy and I smell good too,” attitude most of them have. Elves. *snort*

So looking for a gal? Go dwarven. We’ve got cute fat butts. I know a few of us are a little hot tempered, but a feisty wench is far more fun than a prissy one. And I never really did mean to break that one guy’s toe. I just wanted him to back off a little. I mean telling me I was cute and asking if I knew other dwarven men who shaved. I mean honestly.

~ Svarra Toe Hammer


















Svarra ToeHammer - Trolls Stink
By PallyDog

Trolls Stink. Is That a Racial Slur?

Well you hear it every where you go. Trolls stink. Even the trolls themselves say it. So is it considered a racial slur? Or is it only a slur when humans say it? Or when dwarves say it? I must admit I know a few of my fellow dwarves that could benefit from a nice dip in the Maelstrom.

My ship docked in Orgrimmar the other day. And there he was big as a life, the most god awful, stinkiest troll I have ever encountered. Talk about overwhelming aroma! To say he reeked was an understatement. Well, apparently a human paladin agreed with me that he emanated a fairly strong stench and made no bones about telling him. Poor human. I didn’t know they could be bent into shapes like that. I quickly rethought the idea of offering the troll some of my perfume.

At that point I said to myself “Svarra, I think you better leave your Darnassun Mist in your pack, girl.” I love that stuff, such a soft clingy scent. The elves sure know how to brew a fragrance. But I really decided that night blossoms just wouldn’t be his type. Needless to say my perfume stayed in my pack.

Racial slur or not, I didn’t know if anyone had told that troll that it wasn’t nice to hit girls. I certainly wasn’t going to be the one to find out. I mean I did have my hammer and all but I think that troll was wearing steel toe boots so toe smashing wasn’t going to save me if he took offense. Of course maybe that human was just gimp. I mean the troll was only a shaman after all. Maybe he would like the smell of night blooms…….

~ Svarra ToeHammer













World of Warcraft - E3 Hands On!
By Black Metal

The first thing you see upon entering the Blizzard E3 booth is the attention to detail. On one wall is a glass case which contains two models from the Warcraft series. The first being the Dreadlord Tichondrius, and the other of Grom Hellscream. New artwork lines the walls lending to the over all feel of the booth, creating an atmosphere within it tailored to Blizzard's vision.

Still, one thing drew my attention away from everything else going on around me: the 5 PC's running World of Warcraft. As I watched the person in front of me slashing away with his avatar I knew I had hit pay dirt. I was next in line and soon found myself creating a new character of my very own. The GM (Game Master) was more than happy to answer my questions. Unfortunately, hunters were not available on the E3 computers as of yet. Regardless, I was given 15 minutes to do what I wanted in game. Naturally I picked my favorite race, the Night Elf. Character creation is fast and simple. You have a wide array of choices to customize your avatar to what you think is best.

Next I found myself staring at an NPC with the now infamous exclamation point over the head. A simple click on him and I was on my way to aid the NPC with his needs. The first thing you realize when you're in game is the vastness of the world. Gone are the trees of other MMORPGs that only stand a few feet taller than you, here are the few hundred foot tall trees. Many MMORPGs have a steep learning curve. The interface is confusing, the game controls make limited sense, etc. World of Warcraft crushes that like a sheep under a mountain giant. I found myself using my priest to melee with a click of a button and casting a smite spell with the greatest of ease. Having the basics mastered in only 5 minutes created a real sense of excitement in me. The biggest implication this has is on the previous sense of "Catch Up" some players feel when coming to a new game that beta testers have put through the works. This to me alone showed the work Blizzard has put into this game to make it right for anyone. Casual gamers most all of will be happy to hear this.

One of the biggest things I was impressed with during my 15 minutes is something most people wouldn't think twice about. That, my friends, is the character jumping animations. I've played my fair share of MMORPGS, and not one has created a fluid and natural looking jump animation. Blizzard, on the other hand, has done just that. The transition from jump, hanging, and landing is a thing of beauty.

With the amount of attention paid to small details like your avatar's eyes closing on death to the fluid jump system, I'm blown away. Stay tuned for more updates and information in the coming days!

Please note that the opinions expressed in our articles are solely those of the speaker and do not necessarily represent those of IGN or VN.

















	
<< Back to E3 2004

E3 Interview with Designer Joshua Kurtz

Joshua Kurtz, a Level Designer for World of Warcraft, was kind enough to sit down with WoW Vault at E3 and answer our many eager questions.

WoW Vault: Thank you for meeting with us. Can you introduce yourself?

Joshua Kurtz: My name is Josh Kurtz and I'm a Level Designer for World of Warcraft.

WoW Vault: The first question is about PvP. What will the PvP zones be like? Objectives or key terrain to capture and hold?

Joshua Kurtz: Right now we're doing a lot of work on the PvP System. We want it to be really cool, so we're kind of going through and deciding how we want to do it. We are going to have separate zones that you can go to and PvP. We kind of want it to feel really fast paced as opposed to a slower system. How we're going to accomplish doing that we're not sure yet. We're kind of shooting for a feel like Warcraft III, so you feel like you're on the ground like on a Warcraft III map, but on a much bigger scale than that.

WoW Vault: Will the PvP zones be level based?

Joshua Kurtz: We kind of want to do something like that. We're not sure that's going to work yet. It's something we're still working on.

WoW Vault: Will opposite factions run into each other outside these zones?

Joshua Kurtz: Right now in the beta, we already have that happening. Orcs and humans can run into each other. It does happen regularly.

WoW Vault: Will that continue to happen at release?

Joshua Kurtz: We're not entirely sure. We want to have battlegrounds, and when you go in there you know you're going to face off against Orcs. You can go in there with your buddies and your guild buddies and you're going to go out there and kill some Orcs and Tauren and you're going to have a good time. So yeah, they will interact. We have noticed that running into the opposite faction outside the PvP zones is an issue. It feels funky and broken and we're looking into it.

WoW Vault: What types of servers will you have at release? PvP, AvH (full and standard), Roleplaying, etc.

Joshua Kurtz: We're going to have a wide variety of servers. What those are in the final shipping product, I'm not sure. We do plan to have PvP servers of some kind.

WoW Vault: A recent article mentioned that Hero classes are planned for level 60. Is that correct?

Joshua Kurtz: We actually haven't finished the design on the heroes yet. The level of design we have on heroes right now is that we know we want them, but we're not sure exactly how we're going to implement them.

WoW Vault: Are they still planned for release?

Joshua Kurtz: We don't know yet.

WoW Vault: Will there be unique hero classes for every race/class combo?

Joshua Kurtz: It's not decided yet. I would like to, it would be cool.

WoW Vault: What is the target leveling speed for players? How long do you expect it to take people to hit the maximum level?

Joshua Kurtz: We don't want to make people play for seven years to hit the max level. The fact of the matter is, there are people out there who are going to hit the max level really fast. I don't think there's anything that we can do to stop them. In EQ players are hitting max level in two or three days now. So anything we do to limit their leveling capability will of course affect the casual gamer, who just wants to log on and play twice a week. It will take him an eternity. So we're kind of trying to balance it and make it interesting. We don't want it to take too long.

WoW Vault: What are your plans for the end game? What do you expect people do when they hit the level cap? Why will they want to keep playing?

Joshua Kurtz: We have a lot of ideas for the end game, and we haven't announced all of them. Of course there's going to be PvP. There's also trade skilling and exploration. What it all is we haven't decided yet.

WoW Vault: Are there going to be any PvP rewards?

Joshua Kurtz: We're going to have rewards. What they will be we haven't decided yet. We want to get PvP in and see how it feels before we decide what you get for it.

WoW Vault: What is your stance on macros and exploits? Are you going to really try to crack down on them?

Joshua Kurtz: We're going to crack down on exploits, yes. We don't like it any more than anyone else does. What the exact response will be we're not sure. For example if people find a bug in the game and exploit it - should we ban them? Maybe. But it's our bug and it's our fault, so we should fix it. That's probably the biggest response we'll have to exploits - fixing the problem.

WoW Vault: Do you have any stance about third party programs?

Joshua Kurtz: I actually have no clue.

WoW Vault: Are you going to monitor anything in game like chat or player actions?

Joshua Kurtz: We will track things in game, yes. What we're tracking or how we're tracking it - I can't talk about that.

WoW Vault: Do you plan to expand dungeons at all? For example, creating labryinth-like layouts instead of linear layouts or having puzzles or traps?

Joshua Kurtz: Right now we have so many different dungeons. We instance all of our big dungeons. We have what we call micro dungeons - small caves and buildings that you can go into to fight stuff, and those are part of the world. You can run into other people, you can have player collision, you can meet people. But our big dungeons are all instanced based. We do that for two reasons. The first reason is that it helps you and your group. You go into a big instanced dungeon and you're the only ones there. You get to beat the badass boss. You get to go kill the villain. You get to go accomplish this great feat. You get to explore the whole way, it's like a dungeon crawl. Another thing this lets us do is set up traps and set up cool events that we can't accomplish without an instanced dungeon. Right now we have a dungeon called the Deadmines. When you go into this dungeon, there's these big locked doors and you have to find out how to get through. For the first one, you have to kill the boss to get the key to unlock the door. You get to the second one and there is no key, so you have to find the black powder to put in the cannon and launch the cannon ball to knock down the door. So there are different kinds of dungeons and we have a wide range. You'll have a labyrinth or you'll have this dungeon where there are different parts that you go into and different levels.

WoW Vault: Are you going to be adding more of these type of dungeons?

Joshua Kurtz: Yes.

WoW Vault: There are a lot of dungeons that are the same dungeon model with just different textures. Do you have any plans to change this?

Joshua Kurtz: We have recently added in a whole bunch more. We created about five or six more caves. I don't know if there are any plans to continue that further, but at this point we're not working on that.

WoW Vault: What are your reasons for including the 24 hour in game clock and are you definitely going to keep it for release?

Joshua Kurtz: At this point we're not sure if we're going to keep it. We haven't reached a final decision on it. We like it for a number of reasons. The main reason is, believe it or not, people play they game and they'll mouse over the little time thing that we have and it gives them more of a sense of what's going on in the real world around them. People will look up and go "Wow, it's that time already? I gotta go to school" or "I gotta go to work." And most people don't notice that kind of stuff. We've received feedback from people who say they never would have known what time it was without mousing over the clock. So we like it for that reason. Not everyone encounters that, but some people do. Another reason we like it is that it allows us to create content or events or occurances that can only happen either at a certain time of day or maybe on a holiday. So if it's Halloween, it will be Halloween in game, and it will last all day. So we can set up events based around that. So there's a lot of reasons we want to do it. We don't think it's going to be a huge problem because our night time is so bright and it's easy to play. We have been receiving feedback about it both good and bad.

WoW Vault: Are there going to be a lot of events that only occur at a certain time of day?

Joshua Kurtz: We haven't done a lot at this point, we've only done a few things, but we think it's kind of cool to have stuff that only happens at a certain time of day.

WoW Vault: What is your response to people who can only log on at a certain time of day?

Joshua Kurtz: Say we have an event that only happens during the day, and another event that only happens at night. So there will be people who can't do the day time event or might have to wait until Saturday. If they can't log on during the day, they can do the night time events. There is a balance of night and day events.

WoW Vault: Will there be any alternatives to wearing cloaks, such as battle standards or other items?

Joshua Kurtz: Right now we have tabards that you can wear for guilds. It's youd guild tabard and it has your symbol and your colors and you can wear that. Right now the cloaks have just been put in, so we're still creating models and artwork. So the chances of new and interesting things happening with cloaks are high. What they are I don't know.

WoW Vault: Is there any chance of putting in a toggle so that people can hide their cloaks if they want?

Joshua Kurtz: I don't know. That has been suggested though.

WoW Vault: A recent screenshot showed a Troll on a Raptor mount. Is that the Troll mount?

Joshua Kurtz: I'm not sure actually, I haven't seen that screenshot. I think they are doing racial mounts for all the races. The Orcs have wolves, Humans have horses, Night Elves have big cats, and I know we're doing something for the Trolls, I believe they're Raptors. If it's in the screenshot, then that's probably it.

WoW Vault: Do you have any idea what the Gnome mount will be?

Joshua Kurtz: I'm not sure. I haven't gotten that question before.

WoW Vault: Crafted items do tend to lag a little behind quest and loot items. Are there any plans to change this?

Joshua Kurtz: We're constantly updating our crafting. We just recently added in some new things for Blacksmithing and Leatherworking. So keep your eye open for it in the next push. As for keeping Blacksmith items up with quest items, it depends on how fast your character increases in skill. For example I have a Blacksmith who can make better items than I can wear. In fact, I can't wear some of the items I can make. So by that token I'm not missing anything from quests. Some people quest faster than they spend time advancing crafting.

WoW Vault: So it depends on what you focus on?

Joshua Kurtz: It depends on you, as a player, and how you choose to spend your time.

WoW Vault: I read in a recent E3 article that the level cap will be raised to 55 next phase. Is that true?

Joshua Kurtz: I hadn't heard 55, but I had heard that we are going to raise it. Expect the level cap to be raised consistantly across the beta.

WoW Vault: Do you know when the next phase will start or how many emails will be sent out?

Joshua Kurtz: Actually I don't, that's a completely different department.

WoW Vault: Do you know how many beta players are in the game right now?

Joshua Kurtz: A lot. I don't know exactly how many, but I know that we are reaching our goal numbers for servers.

WoW Vault: Often a certain class cannot use any of the quest rewards offered from a quest. Are there any plans to change this so that you can always get a reward that you can use?

Joshua Kurtz: We are discussing it. I'm not sure exactly what we're going to do to address it, but I know we've been discussing it.

WoW Vault: How soon before we see major characters in the storyline?

Joshua Kurtz: There are actually already well known characters in the beta. You can go into Orgrimmar, the Orc city, and go into the fortress and Thrall is hanging out in the fortress. He can't really do anything right now. He's just eye candy, but he's there.

WoW Vault: Are you going to add more to the storyline?

Joshua Kurtz: Yes, there are going to be events, quests, and all kinds of things based around them. Cairn Bloodhoof already has quests to give out. We plan to do that with all the well known characters.

WoW Vault: Are there going to be any GM run events?

Joshua Kurtz: We plan to have some. How they're going to be implemented and how they're going to be undertaken, we're not sure yet.

WoW Vault: Do you know approximately how often those will happen?

Joshua Kurtz: No.

WoW Vault: How dynamic is the game engine? Can you change things like weather on the fly?

Joshua Kurtz: We haven't actually implemented the weather system yet. If the questions is can you change geometry and cities and buildings, then at this point it is very difficult to do, because it requires large change and we have to send updates to all the players. We'd have to take the servers down, update it, and then have all the people log in and download the new information. We plan on having a more dynamic system, we have design documents for them, but we haven't implemented the changes yet.

WoW Vault: Is that the kind of thing you will do with content updates?

Joshua Kurtz: That is the kind of thing that we'll do with content updates or an expansion. We do have a lot of things that we think are cool and that we really want to do, that we are going to do in content updates or expansions.

WoW Vault: Are you going to add seasonal changes? For example, if it is winter in the real world, will it be winter in the game?

Joshua Kurtz: We would like to do something like that. I'm not sure if it's going to be in at release or part of an expansion or something like that.

WoW Vault: Will server divergence be possible such that a certain event happens on one server and another event happens on another server?

Joshua Kurtz: It is very possible. Whether we'll do it or not I don't know.

WoW Vault: Do you plan to offer any more options for character customization, such as height and build?

Joshua Kurtz: We are constantly updating character options. In the last push, we added a whole bunch of new faces and things like earrings and tusks. So we're constantly updating that. Whether or not we offer new character models, I'm not sure.

WoW Vault: Do you plan to release any more movies?

Joshua Kurtz: There is a new cinematic and another video showing here. I think those are both fairly new. I'm not sure if we're going to do any more. It takes a lot of time and effort to put them together.

WoW Vault: Are those going to go up on the web site?

Joshua Kurtz: Probably. I can't say yes because I don't know. It takes a lot of time and effort to put those together and I think right now the dev team is just focusing on the game.

WoW Vault: Are there going to be advanced weapons, like Moonblades, that take a combination of skills, like unarmed and another weapon skill?

Joshua Kurtz: I haven't heard anything about weapons taking up multiple skills. So that may be true, but I haven't heard it.

WoW Vault: Do the devs debate anything during development?

Joshua Kurtz: We're constantly debating things and constantly discussing what to add. We've got lists of things to add and some people want some things in and other people want other things in. So we're always talking about what we think is cool and what we think isn't cool and what needs to be added. We've even been discussing suggestions from people in the beta. People send us suggestions and we're always talking about those as well.

WoW Vault: Is there anything you're debating right now?

Joshua Kurtz: All kinds of stuff.

WoW Vault: Since Rogues can duel wield, in the last push a Rogue could wield a Dagger and a Sword and use Rogue abilities, but now you can't. Why is that?

Joshua Kurtz: Originally it was not supposed to be like that. Most of the Rogue abilities are supposed to be only Dagger. So there was a bug and people were able to use swords when they shouldn't have. They were doing about twice the damage they were supposed to be doing. Now they're about equal. They still do more damage than most other classes.

WoW Vault: Right now in duels, if people are not the same level, it's not going to be a fair fight. Are there any plans to change this?

Joshua Kurtz: With PvP, changes to dueling will probably be implemented. As we implement things in PvP, I wouldn't be surprised to see changes in dueling. What they will be I can't really say.

WoW Vault: Are there going to be any updates to the graphic engine or updates to the in game models?

Joshua Kurtz: There have been some updates already. If you go and watch on the press machines, they are running some new models for some of the characters: the Orc male, the Human female, and the Orc female have had their polygon counts increased by a large amount. That is something that we're going to be doing for the rest of the characters. All the races will be undergoing a poly upgrade. Any futher changes on top of that I don't know.

WoW Vault: Are any of the monster models going to be updated as well?

Joshua Kurtz: I don't know about that. Any monsters in game that are like Orcs actually use the player models. So the updates will carry over onto those.

WoW Vault: Thank you very much. We appreciate it.
















The Therapy Room - A Material Orc in a Material World
By Tal "Beasty" Beno

Hello everyone. Lately, I have had much less spare time- thus the long blackout period since my last column. And, as a result of my addiction, I mostly spend my spare time leveling my toon on the CoH (City of Heroes) Guardian server. I play a level 22 Scrapper and I am truly having a blast.

In this session I am going to tackle one of the most fun factors of online games: virtual properties. Items and gear are one of the main reasons why people tend to hook up to a game and find it very hard to leave years later. This aspect has also a strong connection to the addiction angle. Online property may look more obtainable on one hand and much shinier on the other.

Online games let us express our darker feelings – greed being one of my all-time favorites. Living in a material world taught us to respect the possession of items. We constantly strive to obtain the 'next best thing.' If you own a house in some neighborhood you will usually grow to care about the place you live and eventually call that place home. Same goes with online games. The more items and/or wealth you have, the more you will care for your virtual world.

In a complementary argument, time is also a crucial factor in getting you involved and immersed with what you do. You will likely feel attached to things you invested time and effort to obtain. This is also true in regard to your online gear. The harder it is for you to get that uber item, the greater your pride in owning it.

When you think of it, there are quite a few categories of virtual property. You may own a weapon or some armor, which we usually refer to as gear. You may also own land and build your dream house. And, in some cases, you can simply take the role of the capitalist pig that you have always secretly wanted to be, and nurture your virtual bank account with a growing pile of gold coins.

Virtual properties are part of the online economy and, as such, may have devastating effects if taken lightly or managed without thought. There aren't that many games that managed to stabilize their economy, foreseeing the proper "drop rates" and appropriate rarity of items. As far as I can tell, WoW certainly learned this lesson and will introduce a carefully planned system where items may have quite a few "drop types." They will have everything from poor and common through rare and epic up to legendary and artifact.

Also related to this subject is the new trend of letting items decay over time. Personally I am totally against such systems, especially when dealing with rare items.

The reasoning of gear and items within online games shouldn't stop though with the somewhat simplistic commitment argument. The commitment through time-investment can be easily expanded when considering your gaming goals. Many people tend to quit games after a month or two due to loosing the purpose of playing. So having a somewhat unreachable "sword-of-doom" in your future helps maintain your addiction.

Items contribute to many more aspects of the game. My friend Sonaris told me once that, after playing EQ for so many years, his guild mates were completely recognizable through their unique gear. Items allow players to look unique and, in most cases, grant you a creative way to express yourself through colors and shapes. A very cool aspect in this regard is the progress that has been made recently with the various game graphic engines. Having the ability to wrap multiple layers of clothes armor and jewelry on top of your already partially unique avatar model greatly enhances this sense of visual uniqueness, which does matter for quite a lot of players.

Items also play a major role in your feeling of advancement with your avatar. As a complementary facet to the character development system, items allow your hero to become better and unique in regard to his/her various skills and abilities. Items can enhance attributes such as strength and agility as well as become the means by which you express your level of proficiency with weapons. In fact, items are the kind of "wild card" throughout your career. While character development tends to be equal for all, items can introduce the certain edge people might wish to gain over the rest of the community. In my opinion the UXO idea of intelligent weapons is totally mind blowing. Having to level your gear along with your hero sounds very cool to me.

This leads me to my next point; Gear has a very strong "coolness" effect on players. A grandiose flaming "Sword of Doom" with a spectacular particle effect may turn your presence to a mini press conference. People will take a picture of you and are likely to drive you crazy with all sort of pesky questions.

So now that we have already established the fact that items and gear may play a major part of any online game, let's turn to discuss the ways by which a player can acquire possessions. The four most common methods would be: shopping, adventuring, questing and manufacturing. In my opinion, the balance between these four methods is just as important as supporting them all. Players shouldn’t be discouraged from choosing their favorite path, which ever it is. The proper balance should be based on a formula that takes into account two main factors – risk and time. The harder you try and the riskier your adventuring becomes, the bigger should be your prize.

As for the loot system, I think that blending a random (dynamic) drop mechanism with a thoughtful personal planned drop system will produce the best results. On one hand, people often like to be surprised. Having the chance to receive a really valuable item through adventuring always makes the experience more exciting. On the other hand, loot should be both useful and appropriate to the player's level. So, dropping only usable items or even going as far as letting the player select his/her own desirable prizes would both be viable ideas.

It wouldn’t be fun to end this session without getting into some kind of a debate. One of the most annoying issues I have with certain online games today revolves around their balance between items and character development. As already mentioned, items could be either considered as a totally legitimate parallel way for character development or, on the other hand, as a mere complementary method for the character development system.

Games such as EQ-Live and its successor EQ2 consider your gear a crucial issue. Yesterday I participated in the first EQ2 chat hosted by IGN. As far as I could understand, players will become unique and different from their fellow players (within the scope of a certain class) mainly as a result of their unique equipment. Opposite to this philosophy, other games, such as CoH (City of Heroes), tend to consider items a much less important aspect of the game.

In my opinion the "perfect" system should be found somewhere in the middle between these two approaches. Equipment shouldn’t be as important as the avatar's abilities. It should, however, complement the character development system in many ways. It seems to me that the use of equipment shouldn't be that important especially in the early levels. While your character is progressing through the early levels, your abilities and skills should play a much more dominant role.

Equipment should become more and more relevant as you get closer to the level cap. Since players still want goals and challenges, equipment is certainly a good way to keep everyone questing and adventuring. In general I wish to reiterate something that I have already mentioned – items should be considered as the game's "wild card". They shouldn’t make too much of a difference, but should certainly give the power gamers the desirable small edge over us mortals.

Lastly, I would like to mention a really interesting social phenomenon which grew in the past few years along with the online games industry. Certain people – whether 16 or 70 years old can seriously commit to a game and make it their real-life profession. Virtual property is sold daily on various sites such as eBay, and their commerce can be seriously considered a real-life job. I suppose that as any other job you simply need to have the proper skills and time commitment to succeed with it.

I never manage to stress enough how important it is for me to read your comments. I will be truly happy if you could drop a line or two in this article's thread, using the link below.

So long everyone, thanks for reading and see you next time.










Gen Con
by Phryer Tuck

Back to Index

Gen Con write up by Phryer Tuck

I first want to start off by thanking Blizzard and its staff at Gen Con. These guys really loved to show the game. You could see it and hear it when they were showing the game to us, and letting us play it. Unfortunately there was a lot of people there, so my play time was limited, but when not playing I watched and ask a lot of questions. Also to everyone that gave me questions, thanks. I think I have most of them answered.

Beta - I know this is the topic everyone wants to know about, and I'm afraid it won't be this year. Of course they wouldn't tell us a date, but after looking at the game you could tell they had a lot to do to fill out the game. What do I mean? Well I saw the Undead Warlock quest for his pet. This was super cool and really easy at first level, but more on that later. Well I played an Orc Warlock just to get a different view and asked where the quest was to get the Orc's pet. I was told this was not in the game yet, and that's my point. Yes the quest system and the pet system work and work very well, but they need to put it in for every race that needs one. Think about it. Someone has to write up the quest, get the character art for the NPC, run all this through its paces, and then get the final, "Ok, let's put it in the game." I can only image that this process does not take a day, and that's just for the Orc's first level pet. To get back to my point, beta is not coming soon, but when it does it will be sweet. I'm not going to say anything about a date, but I will say it's not going to be this year. Maybe sign-ups, but not beta in my opinion.

Okay, enough with the bad news, and now on to all the kewlist stuff I saw and played, and there was a ton. I'll try to give you all more of a flavor then raw numbers. After reading some of the articles I think we all know numbers, but I'll try to get that little info out that I haven't already seen published.

The Interface - It was little hard at first, but after 10 minutes I had it all down. Of course you could move with the W S A D keys, the arrow keys, or the num keys. The number lock key toggled auto-run, and a lot of the action was set to right click on the mouse. You can swing the camera and yourself by right clicking and moving the mouse, or you could swing the camera around yourself with the mouse and left click. You can select critters and NPC's with a left click, but it was the right click that interacted with whatever. So you would right click to attack or right click to get a quest. This was a little new to me, but once I was told how, I had no problem playing.

You could click on skills in the lower bar, or just hit the 1 through 0 keys to do that action. There are 10 quick bars and you can use ctrl or shift, not sure which, and 1 to 0 to get to that bar quickly. Again nothing new. Also the esc key opens a panel with options like logout, video, sound etc. The one major point was all these keys are customizable. The key mapping interface looked really similar to other games, with the keys mapped, a description, and then the key itself. I assume you would just click on the line for that action, hit the key you want that action to be set to and wham you have remapped it.

Overall, the interface didn't seem clumsy, or get in the way of the action. Standard keys were used like "c" for your character, and "b" for your spell book. Again these can all be remapped. Also if you have one window up and open a second the first window slides to the right and the new window opens on the left of the screen. Nice for opening multiple panels at once.

New Character Selection - OMG this was super easy. The amount of colors and designs you had to choose from was very nice. The Orcs has about 10 or so faces, hair styles, and colors of hair. The Gnomes about the same, and some very interesting hair styles, all of which was fun at first glance. I was thinking, "This looks weird", but in game the styles work well. Again all you needed to do is choose Race, Class, appearance, fill in your name, and click Enter World. There were no numbers to configure, not stats to choose, no skills to configure, that's all done in game once you level up. This is a big difference for us AC players that did all this up-front and then entered the game.

One of the first things I did was spin the camera around and do a few emotes, /dance, /rude, /v cheer, and /v help. The dance emote got a ton of laughs. The Gnome started shaking his hips back and forth and smacking the air like he was spanking some girl's butt on the dance floor. This was just too funny. The dance emote was fluid and it was the same dance I think for both Dwarves and Orcs. The rude emote for Gnomes was to stick two fingers in the air palm facing you, so all you mates in England will be proud to use that one. The Orcs and Dwarves again did the same emote of one arm level and the other crossing it. So I would expect that the Gnome has his counter part on the Horde side that does similar emotes. The Cheer emote was different the second time I did it, and I assume it was random. The first time the Orc put his hands up like a megaphone and said, "My life for the Horde", and the second time something else. Also I understand that you should be able to hear that in game, so the Help emote could be used to tell your fellows you need help, by binding it to a hotkey instead of typing /v help. Nice for when your so called healer falls asleep at the switch.

Intro Story - Right now only the Undead have an intro story, but right after clicking "Enter World", all races will get a short in game story explaining that race. I didn't hear the Undead story, but it was in wide screen format and the camera moved through the Undead starter town while a lower voice explained how the Undead broke off from The Scourge. It was really kewl and I hope they make at least one of these downloadable before release.

Skills and Talents - I'll tell you what, there are sooo many talents and skills, and sooooo many options that to explain them all would take the better part a week. I'll just give you an example. As a Paladin you can spec in a type of player skill. Holy Affinity increases your ability to hit, where Holy Specialization makes you do more damage, and there is one more that makes you more resistant to taking melee damage. The idea is that two Paladins could each be totally different. One could be a big tank that does decent damage, where the other might deal out huge damage, but not be as much of a tank. There were also slayer types where you could spec in being a killer of one type of monster like an Undead Slayer. Also you can put more points into a certain defense, like Holy Magic Resistance, Shadow Magic Resistance, etc.

Over all there were just so many skills and talents that I couldn't get them all down, and I bet every fan site will have a hard time getting all the info on their sites within the first week of release because there was so much. So yes if you like numbers you're in luck, because I can only image all the possibilities you'll have while leveling your character. Again you configure all this while leveling not at creation. The quote I liked the best was from Josh Kurtz, "We don't want anyone to feel like they totally screwed themselves." This was with respect to spending skill points. My take is that there are no useless skills, and every character will be unique and become more so as you gain levels. He also mentioned that you won't find a character using both a two handed hammer and a two handed mace. There just aren't that many points. I didn't get the numbers, but I think it was 1 talent point per level and 10 skill points per level, with the character getting more at level 20, level 30, and so on. He also said all this would change depending on beta results. Right now there are not any Racial Talents in the game, but there might be some. He was unsure on this.

Items - There was a ton of items and we got to see a lot from some Dwarven vendors. A lot of the icons looked like Warcraft III icons so that makes me think a lot of your favorite items will be in game for your character to purchase, craft, and upgrade. All items had a min level limit and an average level. The hammer we saw said level 21 (17 min). We were told that at level 21 this was the average weapon you should be using, but if you are level 17 you could still use it with no negatives to hits, damage, etc. Also, as you level you will be looking for higher and higher level items. For those that played AC2 and DAoC you know this system, at this level you had one set of armor and weapons, but then once you level you were in a new bracket of armor and weapons. He didn't say it was that clear and defined a break, just that as you level you'll always be looking for new items.

Items will play a big part in the game. Josh mentioned that as a warrior you're going to rely a ton on weapons and armor, but that's the point. They wanted to give the Warriors something to do and a role to play. Otherwise as a Warrior, if all you had to do was level, what else would there be for you? That's the role and uniqueness of Warriors and Paladins. Right now only Warriors and Paladin can wear plate, and they are going to be the ones looking for armor and weapon smiths the most.

Magic items are in the game, but also you can enchant items, a few examples of this were that you could get a bonus and fire enchantment on a sword that is nonpermanent, or get a lesser bonus and enchantment that is permanent. All you have to do is open a window with another player, exchange money for weapon buffs and your done. We were told that the bigger nonpermanent buffs would be like 30 min. Also lets say your wearing leather armor, you might just go to the vendor and buy patches that add +20 to your armor for 30 mins. Again this is not a buff as AC players would know it, but still a buff in how it works. Also think about how this will work the economy. Yea you might have a ton of money, but if you keep burning it on patches to hunt or buffs and acid to hunt that means players aren't going to mass tons of wealth right off the bat. What we can call a money sink taking money out of the system forcing players to play and not just sit around and count their cash.

Money - That bring me to money, which is the standard Gold, Silver, and Copper system. I didn't ask how much you can amass, but a few times I saw some of the Blizzard guys give their characters a million gold so that they could buy items or mounts. I didn't see much else, and I didn't what to get all hardcore about an economy when the game's not even in beta.

Mounts - We asked to see mounts, but the level limit on this version was 25 and we were told you needed to be 40 to get a mount. So he couldn't show them to us.

    Orcs get a wolf
    Humans a horse
    Elves ride big cats like Tigers
    Undead get an Undead horse, with the Nightmare being a summonable pet or mount that they get at higher levels.
    The rest we didn't get any word on, but I remarked that Gnomes should ride cats, like common house cats ... LOL

Again there was just so much to take in and without a video camera, or Writing Mastery VII on me I couldn't take down all the information. If you want to ask me question on the vault feel free I know there is a lot more info, I just can't remember or it didn't fall into a nice box for this write-up. Also I didn't major in English so I apologize if this article doesn't flow.

Below are the questions I asked to Josh Kurtz.

How do you start a guild in game?
You go to an NPC in town and he gives you a slip of paper that you need to take around and get signed by other players. Once you have enough you bring it back and can start a guild

Is there a minimum number of players required to start a guild?
Not officially, but the number 10 was thrown out.

Will the guild system be more like Asheron's Call (swear to a patron), or like DAoC (a core group that has control over membership)?
No, more like EQ's guild system.

In one of the dev chats there was a mention of a web site for guilds. Can you elaborate more on this?
I haven't heard anything about this, sorry.

What kinds of servers are you planning? Normal, PvP, AvH?
We'd like to do them all, but right now we don't have any plans.

Will players be able to raid deep into the other faction's territory, and is this something that will be encouraged?
Nothing can stop you from going into the other faction's territory, but NPC guards will chew you up if you get too close to them.

Are you planning on a similar model for servers as you have done with Diablo and Warcraft? For example, US West, US East, etc.
Not sure.

Will character names be unique per server or per region? I.E. Can I be the only Phryer Tuck on USWest, or just on my server?
Names will be unique per server right now. When we know more, it might change. Note also that there was a naming policy on names. One player typed bob, and it was taken, so he tried bob224g and he was told this was an invalid name.

When looking at epic quests ,it's been mentioned that they have been designed for large guilds. How large of a guild is considered large? 25, 50, 100, 500?
Well we don't want you to have a zerg guild of 800, but the design is more for 40 to 80 or 90.

A little bit on PvP and characters:
Are there any negative bonuses based on race, and can you give me a few examples?
None, we don't want anyone to not play a race because they can't do this or get a negative to that.

Will all classes generally be equal in PvP (in terms of one on one combat)?
Everyone will have their use in PvP. This is where he explained the two Paladins to me. One was more defensive and one more offensive (see the Skills and Talents section).

What does the leveling curve look like? Is it steep throughout or are there break points as you gain levels?
The curve is consistent, and right now they are still working on it.

How long will it take to get to the maximum level?
I'd like to see it take the average player at least 2 months, but you know, you should never reach max level imo. Also we don't want to stop the hardcore player or force the casual player into playing a certain way.

I'd like to know how many talent points are awarded per level up. Do you get the same amount each level, or do they increase exponentially, like the DAoC system?
You get one per level

Do all classes get the same amount of talent points?
Yes

Is armor factor the determinant for chance to be hit, or is it an "absorb" rating for damage taken?
Armor affects how much damage you take, not whether or not you get hit.

What stats or skills determine your attack rating (chance to hit) and what stats or skills can mitigate your opponent's chance to hit you?
It depends on your class. Strength affects Warriors and Paladins, while Agility is for Rogues and Hunters.

What is the benchmark for "balanced" PvE ability? Should all classes be able to solo to a certain predetermined degree?
Everyone should be able to solo for their entire life, but soloing will not get you the best loot or the most xp.

Will there be a community feedback structure similar to Mythic's Team Lead program for the solicitation of fan feedback and balance/bug testing purposes?
Yes they want feedback even once the game is released, but no method has been determined as of yet.

What system are you running the game on currently?
Here I'm not sure, but at work I have two machines a PIV 1.8 with a 4200i and it runs real smooth, and another PIII 800 with a GeForce III and it runs well on that.

What the general feeling right now at Blizzard?
We're excited to start showing the game. The past 3 months have been crunch time, but now we're just really excited to start having the public look at the game.

He also mentioned that there are 60 people on the WoW team and he did mention that he personally reads the boards, but does not post. He also said a lot of the guys read the boards. Kinda nice to hear that info if I can say so myself.

Ahh well if you made it this far you might have noticed I missed something. Well I was saving the best till last.
Pets - We saw an Undead Warlock get his first level pet quest. It involved killing five Skeletons and then returning back to the NPC. Once you finished the quest, a pet icon showed up on your quickbar and in your spell book. Once summoned, a second smaller quick bar showed up just above your main one. This allows you to command the pet. For example, you can make your pet attack a targeted creature without having to attack it yourself first. Also, your pet can learn more spells and it levels up with you. You can't name your pet, but the Imp a first level Warlock gets was super kewl. All the screenshots don't do it justice. With his pet the Warlock was killing the same Skeletons in half the time. Also the Imp moved back out of combat when the Skeleton was meleeing the player. Since the Imp is not a tank, the AI was smart enough to make the Imp move out of harm's way as he nuked from range. I have to say pet AI was really important to me and it looked very good.

Well I know I missed a ton of info and we got a lot of shots of skills and in game action. Overall the game is going to capture all of our interests for a long time. Just seeing some of the creatures you kill as a newb was kewl. Yes there were rats, but at first level, an Undead Warlock was killing full size skeletons and one armed undead zombies, and I think in about 15 mins playing, the Gnome Rogue I was playing leveled twice.

A few last comments. Spells didn't just go straight at the target they kinda moved up and down as they flew toward critters. The third Gnome special attack that I got made him kinda spin and strike with his sword. As I gained levels, the skills just showed up on my quick bar, which was a nice feature since I was just learning. As I attacked with the Rogue, unusable skills were grayed out until I could use them.

Again the game was just really fun and easy to learn, but more complex than any game I've seen since AC.

Phryer Tuck
















Gen Con
by TehSuq

Back to Index

    Introduction
    Section I: Game Engine
    Section II: Skills
    Section III: Talents
    Section IV: Character Development
    Section V: PvE and PvP
    Section VI: Economy
    Section VII: Guilds
    Section VIII: Appearance
    Section IX: Travel and Communication
    Section X: Beta
    Section XI: Miscellany

I went to Gen Con today.

To those of you who weren’t there, let me give you a feel for the event:

Think of the geekiest person you ever met, in your entire life. Let’s call him “Brian.” Now, picture a giant room filled with hundreds of people that Brian would never have hung out with on account of not being THAT much of a geek. Consider the bell curve that defines humanity’s traits. You know how much higher on the “coolness” curve Al Pacino is relative to the typical fairly-cool high school sophomore? That’s how much lower the average Gen Con attendee is on that same scale than your friend Brian. Mind you, there were fairly normal looking folks there (I’d like to pretend I fall into that category), but some people…Jumpin’ Jesus on a pogo stick, they SCARED me. (Note to the 300 pound guy dressed as Liam Neeson’s character from Star Wars Episode I: please don’t breed.) For these people, Gen Con is like Christmas, Halloween, and Mardi Gras all rolled into one: it is a paradise for the dork’s dork.

Trading card games.
Video games.
Swords and medieval weaponry.
LAPR – that’s (L)ive (A)ction (R)ole(P)laying, for those of you unfamiliar with the lingo (and a more geekified activity has yet to be invented by the mind of man).
Miniatures.
Anime DVD for sale.
People in costume – including Boba Fett, Darth Vader, and a gaggle of Storm Troopers, all moving as a pseudo-combat team.
Roleplaying game events.
The nerd role-call continues. Indefinitely.

All the areas on the main floor (the only floor I visited – apparently, the other floors were for the REALLY dorky events, and I didn’t even want to know what THAT meant) were fairly sparsely populated by visitors, except two: the line to see William Shatner and the Nvidia booth’s World of Warcraft display. Yes, my friends, even the presence of no less a legend than T. J. Hooker himself was insufficient to thin the crowd waiting to glimpse (and play! Ten minute limit, keep the line moving) WoW. I circled around and looked at various booths and found some pretty nifty looking things. To my mind, the niftiest looking items were Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and these headphones that vibrated to simulate extreme bass response. I even spotted T. J. while he sipped coffee and waited for the next star-struck weenie to come stuttering with awe as he scrawled his name for them (for free! What an honor!). Personally, I didn’t wait to talk to him – I always like MacGuyver better, personally.

The gates opened at 10am. At 10:05am, I had buttonholed a WoW dev. Over the next five hours (yes, five hours), I peppered the poor guy with question after question after question. If he wasn’t in the bathroom, at lunch, or helping some other person, he was answering questions for me. (To Josh Kurtz: You played Virgil to my Dante for FIVE HOURS, and I can’t adequately express how grateful I am for all your help. You are truly a scholar and a gentleman. Without your help, I would have next to nothing to say in this post.)

What follows is cribbed from the 13 pages of notes I took during my stay at booth 223. Any errors in this text belong to ME, not the wonderful and hard-working Blizzard employees frantically scrambling to help the forty-odd visitors learn as much about what was happening on the two demo computers as possible.

On a side note, George was kind enough to give me a press kit CD; I haven’t looked it over yet, but I was promised that it had “Gen Con exclusive screen shots.” Does anybody know where I can host those screenies on the web?

Section I: Game Engine

Blizzard has one thing completely, undeniably wrong: they simply don’t know the definition of “alpha.” Both Anarchy Online and WWIIOL were less polished and complete three months after RELEASE than WoW is RIGHT NOW. In the five hours I was there, the two demo comps ran non-stop, with new players jumping in every 10 minutes. During that entire time, one computer crashed-to-desktop one time and the other did not crash at all. At no point did either computer lock up, and the single crash was up and running thirty seconds later, without so much as a reboot. To be honest, I wasn’t looking when it went down, so I’m just ASSUMING it crashed; the player could just as easily have accidentally exited the game. I guess what I’m saying is that over 10 hours of combined run time, there was somewhere between 0 and 1 crashes. Perhaps the IGN boys can say for sure which it was; they were paying more attention to the game at the time, and might have noticed what happened.

All the Blizzard agents were quick to report that EVERY aspect of the game is still subject to modification, and will continue to be modifiable until beta is well underway. In discussing the details of the game, it seems clear to me that Blizzard has made every effort to close NO doors in the design phase. Often, I would ask a question and be told “we could implement that, but we haven’t decided yet if we want to.” In other words, it seems highly unlikely that Blizzard will run into many structurally unalterable features in their game (i.e., limited character slots because the engine won’t allow more, or only 10 buffs because the game can’t be made to handle more).

Right now, the game can (and often is) run in a windowed mode. The booth systems were a power gamer’s wet dream: AMD Athlon 2600+, Leadtek-designed NVidia GeForce 4 5950 Ultra (if you haven’t seen this vid card, it’s basically a heat sink with a little particle board attached), 1 gig RAM. This system chowed through WoW like it was playing minesweeper. This shouldn’t be surprising, considering what I was told by the dev: in his office, he runs WoW on two separate machines. On the P4 1.8GHz with the GeForce 4200 Ti, the game works PERFECTLY, with nary a hiccup. On his P3 800MHz (!) with a GeForce 3 (!!), the game runs fine. I’m thinking we won’t have a system hog on our hands, here.

The game is 100% customizable: all keys can be remapped, and devs are working on revamping the interface right now. There was some mention of the interface being customizable with “skins,” much like the Real Player or Windows Media Player has now, so as to change the look and feel of your interface in the game. Whether that happens, and if so, whether it happens before the game is released, remains to be seen. The camera can be rotated to any position in three dimensions, and pulled quite far back (if you’ve played DAoC, the camera here is very similar). You can play in 1st person or 3rd person modes, and the mouse scroll button adjusts the camera’s distance from your body. If the camera gets close enough to you, 3rd person mode seamlessly transitions into 1st person mode – a very nice touch that looks quite classy and polished. The ten slots with pictures in them at the bottom of the screen are, as many have guessed, a hotkey bar. Any useful traits can be dragged and dropped onto this bar and accessed with the number buttons on the keyboard. Also, there are multiple pages of these hotkey bars (apparently about 10 of them), so you shouldn’t have much worry about running out of hotkey slots.

On to the game.

Section II: Skills

World of Warcraft breaks abilities into two separate fields: skills and talents. Skills are those items that do not directly affect combat – included here are languages, riding on steeds, trade skills, and some miscellaneous abilities (discussed more in other sections). Talents are combat-oriented abilities: attribute increases, defense, regeneration, magical abilities, holy specialization, magical resistances, slayer talents, weaponry skills, invisibility detection, etc. As of now, there are no racially restricted skills or talents, although the devs expressed some hope that there might be racially restricted skills later on. (More on talents later.)

Every level, a player earns 1 skill point. Talent points start accruing at 10 per level, but increase at higher levels (you actually earn MORE than 10 per level when you gain advanced levels). Since the two channels are separated, you will never have to gimp your character to participate in trade skills. However, since skill points are level based, you will not have level 1 trade mules. Currently, respec’s are in discussion, but not finalized: Blizzard doesn’t ever want a player to feel that they screwed themselves with a particular spec. There was some discussion that a maximum-level character might be able to acquire extra skill points through buying them or questing for them, but this is far from decided.

With skills, there are three levels per skill. For example, to get the first level of mining ability costs 3 skill points, second level costs an extra 5, and third level costs 7 additional skill points. While the dev mentioned keeping this concept open for change in the future, there currently is no plan to change skills to “many cheap levels” rather than “three increasingly expensive levels.” One should expect to spend roughly 10-15 skill points to max our a skill. As of now, there are about 20-25 skills in the game:

    Blacksmith: this skill makes the chain and plate weapons, as well as the metal weaponry. There is no separate skill for armor or weapons; blacksmiths make both. In addition, blacksmiths can make whetstones, consumable items that can be applied to armor or weapons to imbue them with magical abilities for a limited time period – think of a whetstone that could grant a sword +2 fire damage for 60 minutes. Blacksmiths are important for tanks, but they need to be supplied through mining.
    Leatherworkers: most characters will get their armor from these folks. They make all leather-based armor. Furthermore, they make the consumable “leather patches” which imbue leather armor with special bonuses for a limited time, e.g., a +3 AC patch that lasts 30 minutes.
    Clothiers (tailors): these people make clothing to customize all players’ looks, cloth armor for pure casters, and also the bags that hold your gear. There is no weight attached to any items; your carrying capacity is limited only by the size of your bags. As a result, these tailored bags will be VERY important in the game. While the dev mentioned that magical bags are possible, he added that there was no current plan to implement magical bags of any kind.
    Enchanters: these people add consumable temporary enchantments to any equipment; also, they can add permanent enchantments to any item. As of now, there is no limit to the number of enchantments that an object can carry, but that is obviously subject to change for balance purposes.
    Cooks: these people make the food that we all enjoy. In game, food increases your health regeneration while sitting (example: I found jerky strips on some troggs I killed, and they were labeled “increases health by 98 points over 23 seconds while sitting.” Think of food as portable regeneration spells). Similarly, beverages (water, milk, etc.) are to mana what food is to health. Right now, brewers might be pulled out of the game until after release, with the current plan being to roll beverage creation into the cook’s role in the game. Before you get sad, let me mention that while brewing may be out of the game (for now), alcohol will be IN the game. The devs mentioned that they are still hammering out the details as to HOW alcohol will be implemented – one idea that I found hilarious and wonderful: “if you’re a human male, we’re toying with the idea that alcohol will make ALL humanoid PCs and NPCs look to you like a beautiful human female for awhile.” Classic Blizzard humor – huzzah!
    Alchemist: of course, these are the people who make your friendly neighborhood potions. Just as smithing requires mining, so alchemy will require herbology for gathering raw ingredients.
    Mining: calling all dwarves…mining is how we get metals from the earth for making into weapons, engineered items, and armor. Expect to find high-quality metal veins in dangerous dungeons.
    Herbology: the same thing for gathering rare plants. Expect to find high-quality herbs in dangerous dungeons as well.
    Fishing: I have to mention this one, because it’s so nifty. You get a fishing pole and go to a stream, river, or ocean. Cast into the water and wait. When your bobber dips, quickly click on it – if you were fast enough, you’ll catch a fish; if not, you must try again! It was the only example of “twitch gaming” in WoW, according to the devs, but I saw it in action, and it looked like some major mindless fun.
    Engineering: while engineering is quite useful to the engineer, it won’t be a very tradable skill. For instance: an engineer can create dynamite to blow the bejeezus out of his enemy, but to USE dynamite, you must have the engineering skill, so it can’t just be sold to other PCs like a potion could. The one engineered item that IS marketable is that engineers make the guns and ammo in the game. Right now, steam tanks cannot be built OR used, although they appear in game as part of the scenery here and there.
    Fletching: not yet in game, but coming.

Other skills include things like weapon skill (if you don’t start with the ability to use guns, spending some skill points, not talent points, can acquire you the ability. You’ll never be as good with your gun as a native shooter, but it’s a start), languages, cartography, camping (lets you make fires – useful for cooking skill) and riding steeds. For you dedicated trade skillers, expect your craft to be valuable: according to the dev, the best item of a particular kind might be purchased from vendors, crafted, or dropped, and will change as you level. (Example: maybe at level 5, the best damage-boosting dagger is crafted, but at level 10 the best damage-boosting dagger is dropped, and at level 25 it might be purchased from a vendor. Also, at some levels there might be multiple identically “best” items that overlap. Always, there will be different KINDS of items, so that a defensive paladin’s best 2H hammer could be significantly different from an OFFENSIVE paladin’s best 2H hammer, which could differ again from the magical paladin’s best 2H hammer. You get the idea.)

In order to train a skill, you must speak with the trainer for that skill. Secret skills WILL exist: to get these skills, you may have to journey far to find a hidden trainer who gives you the skill you seek. Incidentally, if you don’t have a skill it does NOT show up in your skill list, so if you haven’t found the Flaming Kitten Juggling trainer yet, you will have no way of knowing that the Flaming Kitten Juggling skill even exists. That having been said, the devs recognize that spoiler sites WILL exist, and WILL propagate this information widely. They have no intention of interfering with this. (Aside: throughout my conversation, I got the distinct impression that Blizzard has no starting opinion as to what the “right” way to play the game is, and does not intend to impinge on our own playing styles unless we are actually interfering with the gaming experience of others. Power gamers and casual gamers are welcome; trade skillers and adventurers, RPers and spoiler-mongers: all have their place in WoW, and Blizzard will not try to arbitrarily stop people from “playing the wrong way.”) If you want to find stuff on your own, you will get the reward of discovery; if you want to hit the spoiler sites, you’re welcome to do so. In fact, the devs even mentioned that as “hidden” talents get more widely discovered, the game itself could change: perhaps an NPC in a barroom may mention the new skill to you in passing, and even point you in the right direction, or start you on a quest to ultimately find that trainer.

Currently there are about 20-30 recipes in game per skill. (While recipes can be found or bought for gold, they will never require skill points to gain.) The color of a skill has NO IMPACT on the product made – there is no “quality” for items, there is no variable ingredient cost, etc. If you are capable of making an item, you will succeed 100% of the time, and the product you make will be identical to one made by someone 100 skill points higher than you. Trade skills in WoW are designed to be FUN. The are limited not by time (trade skills are not the click-fest that they were in EQ, and are not the timer bombs that they were in DAoC); rather, the key slowing down trade skill advancement will be the gathering of the ingredients. That will be time-consuming enough that every item you make will be like a mini-quest in gathering the ingredients. The color of the recipe (red to grey) only affects how many points you gain in the skill when you complete the recipe; it has nothing to do with the end product itself.

Some tradeskills will require the crafter to be in a specific region: smiths need a forge, found only in cities and cooks need a fire (any fire will do, and camping skill will let you MAKE fires). Other skills (enchanting and tailoring, for instance) can be done “in the field.”

Section III: Talents

Every level, a character gains talent points (10 per level early, MORE than that later on). These talent points can be spent anywhere – you do not need to speak with a trainer to gain new talents. Your class will determine what talents you have access to, and there are MANY talents to choose from. To gain talents, you merely open your character screen (or “paper doll” for you UO graduates) and click on “talents.” Prices show up immediately. Unlike skills, you can always determine ALL talents that you will EVER have access to – they will simply show up in red if you are not yet of a high enough level to take those talents. All talents will be combat-oriented. While skillful choice of talents may create a stronger character, it will be IMPOSSIBLE to gimp your character into unplayability by making really bad choices. Examples of talents:

    Shield: warriors have access to the shield talent. If you improve your shield talent, your character will benefit more from equipping a shield. (Shields boost your armor and defense, but a high-shield warrior will get a larger bonus to armor and defense from a shield than a low-shield warrior will get from the same shield.) Increased shield talent also gives a player access to stronger shield-related skills, like bash (stunning move) and wall (makes your character extremely hard to hit, but completely prevents him from attacking).
    Weapons: melee characters can improve their talent with a particular weapon. In doing so, they access new and deadly weapon styles.
    Dual wield: rogues get dual wield talent at level 4ish; Hunters also gain dual wield talent early in their career. Other classes may be able to buy dual wield as a skill (not talent) later in their career. Skill-based combat abilities will generally be vastly inferior to talent-based combat abilities: while a warrior who bought the dual-wield skill may be able to wield a second weapon, the rogue who advanced his dual-wield talent will be superior with two weapons due to having special dual-wield styles and abilities (i.e., damage bonuses, etc).
    Defense: while armor increases your damage reduction (every 5 points of AC reduces the damage taken per hit by 1), the defense talent increases your damage AVOIDANCE (makes it harder for your enemies to land their blows on you).
    Archery: again, while most classes can buy an archery skill, bow Hunters will have class-specific archery TALENTS, making them superior with a bow.
    Offense: just as defensive talents can increase your defense, so too are there offensive talents.
    Invisibility detection: stealth-haters rejoice – EVERY class has access to this talent if they want it.
    Magic ability talents for mages and warlocks.
    Holy specialization talents for paladins and priests.
    Magical resistance talents can improve your defenses against certain classes of magic.
    Slayer talents can make you especially deadly against a particular type of enemy.
    Regeneration talents can help those non-healers get back on their feet more quickly, or survive fights more easily.

Sorry, folks – while there will be a skill for unarmed combat that anybody can take, there will be no unarmed talent for any class currently scheduled for release. While you CAN fight without a weapon, it will NEVER be the best choice for you.

Section IV: Character development

Every character will be completely playable – that is Blizzard’s commitment to the gamer. There will be no class/race combinations that go unused because they are “gimped.” The devs’ end goal is to have maxed-level characters differ primarily because of spec paths, not racial characteristics. In fact, I was told the primary differences between the races are aesthetics and racial intrinsics (racial abilities). I asked what all the starting racial abilities of all the races were, but I was told that (1) they have recently changed those around and (2) they are still in flux. The devs present did not know off the top of their heads the racial abilities of all races, nor did they feel confident that the ones currently in place would be the ones in place when the game goes live: that is an area that is currently actively being debated for balance reasons. Blizzard has not yet decided whether they want the racial abilities to be purely cosmetic, minor, or major, and whether they should affect PvP or not. One thing is for sure, though: there will be no negative racial traits. (Again, this is in keeping with Blizzard’s goal of making the game eternally fun.)

I did get a dev to tell me the mounts for EVERY race:

    Orcs and Trolls both get wolves.
    Dwarves and Gnomes both get battle rams. (No war bunnies! Arrrgh….)
    Humans will ride horses.
    Taurens will have the “plains running” ability instead of a steed.
    Night-Elves will ride giant cats, like panthers and white tigers.
    The Undead will ride dead horses (not skeletal, but expect them to have bones and guts showing, in true undead style).

Nightmares will be in game as mounts, but they will be a Warlock-only summonable mount (via a spell).

Due to the confusion from yesterday, I asked point-blank about fighting on mounts; the response was that it is currently unknown whether mounted fighting will be allowed or not.

Furthermore, races determine the “taxis” that each race will take from travel nexus to travel nexus:

    Humans, Gnomes, and Dwarves will ride Griffons.
    Taurens, Trolls, and Orcs will ride Wyverns (although apparently Taurens look rather silly on them).
    Night-Elves will ride Hippogryphs.
    The Undead will ride giant bats.

Also, most races will have their own “language” that they can speak. The exceptions to this rule are the Humans (who start out only speaking Common, the Alliance tongue), Orcs (who start out only speaking Orcish, the Horde tongue), and the Undead (who start out speaking Common AND Orcish, and are therefore the only race capable of communicating across factions without spending any skill points). While a Gnome could choose to speak Gnomish, and therefore render himself unfathomable to most Dwarves, he could also always choose to speak Common, making himself understood to ALL alliance characters.

When you create your character, you will be given the choice of what race, class, and sex you would like to choose for your character. Female characters are always shorter than the male characters of the same race, by about 10-20%, depending on the race. Taurens are the tallest race, and Gnomes are the shortest. While I never saw the two next to each other, judging by the other stuff around them I’d have to say that a Gnome female would probably stand roughly as tall as a Tauren male’s kneecap.

The only thing in the game uglier than a Tauren female is a Troll female. Please don’t ask me to elaborate – I’m already anticipating nightmares about them tonight. Suffice it to say I don’t expect to see many female Troll characters running around in-game.

The most surprising sex difference was for the dwarves: while dwarven males look like hung-over, half-dead coke-fiends (BURNING red eyes and fierce scowls), dwarven females are actually quite cute. And while I didn’t cycle through all the options, they didn’t seem to have facial hair (thank goodness). Oh, and the Gnome girlies are cute as a bug’s ear.

After you pick your race, sex, and class, you can then customize features like your face, hair color, hair style, and skin color. There are about 4-5 choices per feature for customization, although I fully expect that number to rise markedly before release. (Another nice feature: rather than having “the starting setup” from which you can customize, Blizzard automatically randomizes all these characteristics every time you create a character. As a result, don’t expect to see a zillion “default dwarves” running around.)

At this point, you select your name, hit the create button, and a cutaway scene starts: every race has its own cutaway scene (or will; as of now, only the Undead have theirs in game). The Undead cut scene lasted about 2ish minutes, and gives useful back story information about the race. Right now, you do not commit your account to just one faction when you create your first character (i.e., you can have Horde and Alliance characters on the same server and on the same account); whether that will remain true at release I do not know (although I doubt it for PvP balance reasons). The cut scene uses the game engine, and the camera moves, eventually stopping focused on your brand new character – it is a seamless transition into the game, and very snazzy. (Side note: these are not the only cut scenes in the game; there are already several others. As of now, most cut scenes revolve around either epic quests or epic dungeons; i.e., when you finish a stage of your epic quest, you could get a cut scene advancing the story. Similarly, when you first enter a particularly spectacular and important dungeon, you could get a cut scene telling some of the story of that dungeon. This would happen during the zone-in to the instanced area, so as not to affect gameplay for you or those around you.)

Did you notice that I did not mention your stat selection? There’s a reason for that: upon character creation, you cannot alter your stats. That’s right: EVERY character of a particular race/class combination will start out with IDENTICAL stats. I asked a dev about this and I was told (QUITE accurately, I might add): there was a common problem in a previous MMORPG (*cough*EQ*cough*); a true novice, creating their first character, could accidentally render that character forever gimped by putting points into the wrong stats. Given that at creation a player is LEAST likely to know what is best for their character, Blizzard prefers to save stat adjustment until later in the game, when the player has a better feel for how the character’s development should be handled. Personally, I couldn’t agree more, and I think Blizzard made an unusual but brilliant choice here.

Upon creation, my character started with literally two quest-giving NPCs IN SIGHT of me, their yellow exclamation points subtly beckoning me closer. Quests are a major part of WoW: one dev told me that his character has rarely been in a situation where he didn’t have at least two active quests on his books, and that only because he hadn’t ventured far enough beyond his current zone. Oh, and when I say active quests, I mean ACTIVE quests; the quests on his books were ones that he could advance and even complete at that moment, rather than 5 (or 20) levels from now. The quest structure is easy and convenient. A player can (and at times WILL) get 100% of their exp from completing quests. Another nice feature: you can select a quest to be your “active” quest at the moment; by doing so, you will get information onscreen about what you still need to do in order to complete that quest. Also, your mini-map will provide you with guidance for finishing your quest; if you are close to a necessary mob or an important NPC, a small arrow will appear on the mini-map pointing you in the right direction to go in order to help advance (or complete) your quest.

A character’s combat damage rating will be determined by their primary skill, whatever that may be for the class. In other words, a stronger Warrior will hit harder, but a more AGILE Rogue will hit harder. Your accuracy in combat (to-hit rating) will be determined by your level, not your stats (although stats may modify this; I was unclear on this point).

Character advancement is expected to be quite smooth, with the leveling curve getting more severe at a fairly steady rate (no more “hell levels” or plateaus in your leveling ability; 31 will be somewhat harder than 30, and 32 will be somewhat harder than 31, etc). The details are still being tweaked, though, as is the maximum level. (Yes, I asked point-blank; as of right now, the maximum level in game is not yet determined.) Hear ye, hear ye: ALL classes will be able to successfully SOLO all the way to MAX LEVEL if they so choose. However, not every creature will be killable by a solo character, and the best loot cannot be gotten by a soloing player. On that point, I was told that you should NOT need “zerg mobs” (hey, it’s their word, they can use it if they want) to take ANYTHING down. Specifically, I was told that while you might need 40 characters to drop a truly epic baddy, you will NOT need 80. Ever. The speed of leveling will be determined by the character’s play style (of course – again, Blizzard is not going to tell us how to play the game, and will make all paths viable and enjoyable), but they are looking to probably have the average gamer take at least a few months to reach max level, with power gamers doing so (significantly) faster and casual gamers doing so slower. Of course, even at max level Blizzard is hoping to have lots for the player to do, be it trade skills, PvP, exploration, loot gathering, guild diplomacy, etc.

Also, ALL classes will be useful in PvP, although their method of balancing PvP is yet to be determined (i.e., will they take a rock-paper-scissors approach of archer beats caster, caster beats tank, tank beats archer, or will they try to balance all classes against all others).

Section V: PvE and PvP

I wish I had enough information about PvP to justify giving it its own section; unfortunately, the devs are just now turning to PvP issues and as a result much about PvP is either unknown or unrevealed to the public at this time.

Enemies in WoW will NOT be cookie-cutter versions of one another. Already, there are in-game “tank mobs,” “archer mobs,” “caster mobs,” “priest mobs,” and “rogue mobs,” each with different abilities related to their category. For example, expect a tank mob to have huge hit points, incredible defensive skills, no ranged attack, and light damage-dishing capabilities. Expect casters to be nuclear bombs at range, but soft and squishy up close, with minimal melee ability, next to no armor, and very low hit points. Rogue mobs will be DANGEROUS: flimsy little wood-chippers capable of withstanding little in the way of attacks but capable of producing AMAZING damage. Archer mobs and priest mobs follow suit. Furthermore, the tactics that a particular mob will choose will depend on their foes, and will likely fight with strong AI. (Example: in game, there is a mob called a Night Saber. These are the big albino cats that the Night Elves favor. Well, if a Night Saber gets low on hit points, it will cast shadow meld on itself and go invisible!)

Grouping will be dynamic and useful. As of right now, a player’s buffs are limited only by stackability; e.g., a player can have any number of buffs on at a time, but only if those buffs can stack with one another. Two of the same buff, for instance, will not stack. One character can only cast one buff on each PC, so there will be no such thing as a “useless” class to a group. (No longer will groups shun the second “buffer” from their ranks.)

On to the individual classes:

    Rogue: the attack styles of a rogue fall into one of two categories – ones that build points (“opening moves”) and ones that use points (“closing moves”). As we have seen, when a rogue starts combat with an enemy, five small white circles form in a semi-circle along the right-hand side of the enemy’s image at the top of the screen. At first, they are all white; as a rogue uses openers, more of those white bubbles fill in with red. When all five bubbles have turned red, the rogue gains nothing more from opening moves. Every closing move will use ALL the red bubbles, and without any red bubbles, closing moves cannot be used. The more red bubbles consumed, the more effective the closing move will be (either it will do more damage, be more effective, or last longer). Every style a rogue uses, whether it is an opener or closer, will consume some endurance; without endurance, the rogue’s styles are unavailable. Early on, rogues gain the ability to dual wield. While 1H weapons do roughly have the damage of a 2H weapon, there are times when two 1H weapons will be preferred and times when a single 2H weapon would outperform. Specifically, the rogue, by buying dual-wield related talents, can increase the effectiveness of his dual wield fighting, such as adding damage to every hit (doubled, since he attacks twice per round). This means that against a thinly-armored enemy like a pure caster, hunter, or fellow rogue, the rogue will dish out massive and steady damage. However, since tanks get damage reduction as a fixed number (NOT a percentage – every 5 points of AC decreases damage from EVERY hit by 1 point), a dual-wielding rogue will have a hard time dropping a well-armored tank. Rogues will also be able to create poisons, and will even be able to poison weapons for use by other characters or other classes. Once an item is poisoned, you do not need any poisoning ability to use the item effectively. Oh, and don’t worry – Rogues CANNOT steal from other players. While they CAN steal from mobs, they do so from a separate pool, so you never have to worry about a rogue stealing that fantastic item from the ubermob you are fighting.

    Hunter: There are two separate categories of hunters – gun hunters and bow hunters. For instance, Night Elf Hunters will be bow hunters but Tauren Hunters will be gun hunters. The differences are just what their ranged weapon is; a Tauren Hunter will become as skillful with a gun as a Night Elf Hunter will become with a bow. However, since Tauren Hunters have guns as a talent but bows as a skill, they will never be as good with a bow as they are with a gun; the opposite is true of Night Elf Hunters. The Focus bar is the Hunter’s meter for “ranged-weapon styles.” While a Hunter is standing still, Focus gradually increases. The moment a Hunter moves, Focus drops to zero to prevent kiting. (Blizzard seems to be very anti-kiting; several other features to minimize kiting are in place as well.) With a full Focus bar, a Hunter will be capable of doing MONDO damage – as I was told, “if you blow an entire Focus bar, you just did a TON of styles.” Therefore, the lack of kiting shouldn’t be a major worry. Also, if all else fails, the Hunter can fall back on his pet and his weapons (dual wielded; I realize there are mixed messages about this, but a reliable dev game me information suggesting Hunters get dual wield early on in the game and automatically, and as a Talent, not a Skill). As to pets, a Hunter can tame any beast of a low enough level. Beasts are a special flag that some but not all non-humanoid mobs have (sorry – no Dragon pets, you Hunters out there). Beast Tracking will be a Hunter talent that helps them find these beasts (they will show up on your mini-map). Also, Hunters have a Beastmaster mode they can enter that will render them neutral to all beasts, although they will therefore be unable to attack beasts while in this mode.

    Warriors: Rogues get their bubbles and Hunters get their Focus, but Warriors get a Rage bar. Rage builds while the Warrior is in battle, depending on his stance. A defensive stance means the Warrior builds Rage for every point of damage he takes; an offensive stance means the Warrior builds Rage by DEALING damage; a berserker stance means the Warrior builds Rage by both dealing AND taking damage. The higher a Warrior’s Rage, the more styles he can do. The dev I spoke to exclusively plays Warriors, and so gave me much information about them (but much less info about casters – sorry, folks). Warriors have a special ability called Kick which does what it sounds like, but the effect is simply to interrupt casting (very nice for the Warrior).

    Druids: shapeshifting gives a druid access to the abilities of the form they acquire. Examples include Panthers (a stealthy form with access to abilities called “rend” and “tear” – I didn’t see them, but they sure sound nasty) and bears (heavy-hitting damage dealers). The purpose of shapeshifting is to enhance the melee ability of the druid.

    Priests will have access to the healing spells AND crowd control spells in the game; as such, I expect them to be extremely group-friendly folks. Dominate is a higher-level Priest spell that gives them total control over another humanoid creature (as of now NOT over a PC, but that may change) so long as they do not move. The domination lasts until the Priest dies, the mob dies, or the Priest breaks the spell.

    Paladins sound like something of a Priest/Warrior hybrid with a commensurate decrease in overall mastery to provide balance (as per usual). Expect to see Paladins wielding 2H hammers, since that is their primary Talent area – they don’t seem to have much shield access, and while they can get sword skills, they have no sword talents.

    Warlocks: I heard very little about Warlocks – sorry, folks. I did find out that Warlocks can summon Nightmares as their own personal steeds.

    Mages: Same for Mages, although I did find out that high-level Mages will be able to teleport to and between towns pretty much at will.

After a fight, a player will regenerate both mana and health faster by sitting down or lying down (as of now, there is no difference between the two, although that may change later). Action is pretty fast and furious. All characters will be able to play the entire game and achieve max level without ever setting foot in a dungeon if they so choose, but in doing so they will never face the toughest monsters, nor will they ever find the best loot.

While dying should be avoided, the final consequences of death have yet to be determined. As of now, there is just a “death sickness” that wears off after awhile, but that WILL change, although we do not yet know how. It is still being actively discussed.

You’ve seen those item levels on gear, right? Such-and-such a sword is level 21 (min 18). What does it mean? I asked – it turns out that for a sword with that description, the “target” level is 21; that means that the average 21st level character should be wielding an item of about level 21. However, an 18th level character who is lucky enough, rich enough, or twinked enough to get this weapon will be able to use it TO FULL EFFECT. That’s right: in the hands of an 18th level character, this weapon will function just as well as it would in the hands of a 21st level character. Of course, you could use it long past level 21, but to do so would gradually hamper your character’s abilities. Tank characters will be quite equipment-oriented (as per usual in MMORPGs); casters less so. Speaking of equipment, each character has 1 helm slot, 2 ring slots, 1 necklace slot, 1 bracer slot (they come as a pair), 1 boot slot, 1 glove slot, 1 belt slot, 1 cloak slot, 1 tabbard slot (not likely to be magical – just for guild symbol and decoration), and 2 “trinket” slots, in addition to a primary hand, off hand, and ranged weapon slot (all distinct, so no more switching out gear to change from bow to weaponry). Incidentally, guns are all “ranged” gear, so there cannot be 1H guns (similarly for bows, but you knew that already).

Of course, your character name will be unique, server-wide (one per server, not per faction). Last names are not yet implemented in game, so we do not yet know how that will be handled, although there WILL be last names available.

Equipment will be randomizable, much like it was in Diablo 2, where a specific drop could have random magical abilities. This allows for some INCREDIBLY rare items. These rare items might drop once out of every 10,000 kills of a particular level of mob, or even once out of every 100,000! While they are technically able to be replicated, the odds of doing so might be as low as one in a billion, so don’t hold your breath….

Oh, and don’t worry about “flavor of the month” classes. Blizzard is committed to keeping this game aimed at making classes FUN. They don’t want to have nerf-centric balancing, or buff-centric balancing; rather, if a class isn’t being played much, Blizzard will increase the “fun” factor of playing that class instead of buffing them up or gimping everybody else.

As I said, PvP information was of depressingly short supply, despite the fact that every 15 minutes someone would ask a poor dev about PvP. What I did glean from my time there was this:

    There will be no collision for players. As a result, I’m quite curious to see how they plan to let meat shields do their job, although the devs said they have some “good ideas” about this.
    Siege gear will be in the game for PvP, although it will not be a trade skill. It was unclear to me how, exactly, siege gear will be implemented.
    Blizzard is banking heavily on their RTS experience, and hoping to bring that experience to PvP (as well as every other aspect of this game).
    Uberguild dominance of PvP is not likely. The devs have some ideas about this, too, including such things as limiting entry to PvP areas by level and skill (as determined by previous performance). Other ideas were not yet ready for discussion.
    Nothing in-game prevents one faction from invading the cities of another faction; whether this would lead to any lasting benefit for the faction remains to be seen.

Section VI: Economy

First, let me set the record straight: 100 coppers = 1 silver, and 100 silver = 1 gold. There is no currency beyond gold, nor are there plans to have any. Apparently, we won’t need it; Blizzard plans to keep money tight.

Blizzard is always discussing the economy, but setting up a perfect economy is HARD. As one dev put it, “our real world economy is screwed up; how can you expect a game economy to be perfect?” The devs basically felt that money sinks of some kind were a necessary evil to the proper functioning of the economy and to prevent the massive twinking and inflation that often destroys economies in games. Some money sinks in-game include taxi pads and trade skills, particularly consumables (which EVERY trade skill has). One of the ways they plan to control the economy is by always having something “fun” and “cool” that players can save up for. This is particularly true for guilds, although nothing specific was mentioned (the dev was purposefully vague on this point, admitting that this area is still under discussion).

As of now, there is an auction channel in the game. This will probably change from its current implementation, although what it will eventually evolve into will be decided during beta. If a channel is bothering you, though, you can always turn an entire channel off to avoid the spam.

Cooperation will be very important for trade skills, and since those trade skills will be very important for adventurers, we can expect to see a vibrant economy resulting from this.

For you loot hounds: yes, Virginia, there is a random number generator available to players for loot rolls.

As long as we’re talking about the economy, let’s talk storage. Every player starts the game with five bag slots. Since there is no encumbrance in the game, your carrying capacity is limited only by the size of your bags. You can find or buy new and larger bags to fill those slots of yours, and yes, there are some very rare and VERY massive bags in the game. Similarly, your bank starts with a limited number of bag slots (somewhere between 3 and 5; people were hazy on the specifics). You can upgrade these with new and bigger bags just as you can your inventory bags. To access your bank account, you must travel to a MAJOR city; the small towns will not have banks. However, whichever major city you find yourself in, you will have access to all the equipment you have stored in your bank (this is the same as all the other MMORPGs that I’ve played). One new and delightful feature: while your character can never have more than 5 bags, your bank CAN. Specifically, by paying a one-time fee (no maintenance cost) you can upgrade the size of your bank vault to provide more bag slots. The maximum is fairly large (something like 20), but the more bag slots your bank vault has, the more expensive the next slot becomes. Thus, buying your 6th bag slot for your bank might be relatively affordable, but buying your 20th may very well be crushingly expensive.

For those of you who are worried about the fact that you can only bank in major cities, fret not: according to Blizzard, you will be spending a great deal of time in the major cities. Trips to the city will be frequent for things like new equipment, replenishing supplies, training, trading, etc. Also, unlike other MMORPGs, returning to the city will be EASY and FAST, especially at higher levels. Plus, since there won’t be any “camping” needed, or any seven-hour dungeon-breaks to worry about, pausing the action to head to town won’t be traumatic for the team. Expect a trip to the bank to take a high level character about 2 minutes or so – yeah, it’s that easy.

Expanding on the subject of bags, there will be some stackable items; specifically, consumables. As of now, potions stack (depending on the type; some stack to 5, others to 10, and some even to 20), food stacks (up to groups of 20), and beverages stack (also up to 20). I saw some loots stacking, but those might have been in one of the aforementioned categories.

Section VII: Guilds

As of now, guild information is a bit sparse. However, here’s what I’ve got so far. As of now, they have not yet implemented the guild interface. However, eventually you will approach an NPC who will give you some sort of sign-up sheet. You then circulate that like a petition to the potential members of your guild. They take the sheet, click an “accept” button, and give it back. After you get the requisite number of guildmates (expect this number to be about 10), you return it to the NPC and voila: your guild is formed. (Nice feature: no longer do you all have to gather together at once just to form your guild.)

The guild structure will be similar to guilds in EQ, with a loose hierarchy of control, often determined internally. Inter-guild alliances have been discussed but are not yet finalized. I was surprised to discover that Blizzard has considered having a MAXIMUM number of members for a guild! While this is far from certain, Blizzard wants to avoid the superguilds that can devour entire servers. Of course, the definition of “too large” has yet to be determined.

Customizing your guild’s look is done through tabards (basically, these are loincloths). The tabard has your guild symbol on it. While symbols are not uploadable (due to the crushing burden that places on the customer representatives in verifying that the images are acceptable), they are heavily customizable: as of now, there are two colors per tabard (with 20 choices per color, with a different set of 20 for foreground color and background color), one symbol per tabard (from 40 choices), and one border per tabard (from 20 choices), giving a dizzying array of choices for the guilds. I did not determine whether tabard choices would be unique or not, but I assume they will be, since they are meant to distinguish the guild’s members from the assorted hoi polloi.

There will, of course, be a guild chat channel – as one dev put it, “that’s one of the main reasons to form a guild in the first place.” Gathering together your guildmates should not be difficult, especially if they aren’t TOO scattered or if they are of a reasonably high level.

Worries about guild dominance of a server are unfounded. The best mobs are in instanced areas of a dungeon; if an uberguild is raiding the ubermobs, your group can do it, too, with no interference. The same is true of major quest mobs – they all appear in instanced areas of the world.

Section VIII: Appearance

The details in this game are already unbelievable. Just breath-taking. Examples:

    Characters blink.
    Facial expressions adjust during emotes.
    When a character moves, he leaves footprints that linger for a noticeable amount of time. (No footprints when you are invisible, though.)
    In cold country, you can see your character’s breath – little puffs of white came from my Gnome’s lips every few seconds.
    Movements are absolutely fluid and natural-looking, from fighting to running to emoting to standing still (and fidgeting).
    Natural and artificial fires will burn a character, causing damage.
    Music was developed in-house with areas in mind. The designers led the composers through the game, saying “OK, here it should sound ominous. Here, make it sound tense. Here, things get safer. Danger over here. Etc.” The music is wonderfully mood-enhancing, but subtle enough not to even be noticed most of the time. Of course, there is situational music (i.e., battle songs) as well as regional music. (Side note: as of now, there is no in-game MP3 player, but that is being discussed, and may be implemented after the game goes live. Even without it, you can always run one in the background, since the game can be played in a window.)

The entire world was created by HAND: there was no automation whatsoever in the process. As a result, every tree is slightly different, every hill nuanced, every road and mountain and shrub subtly changed from the others around it. Of course, everything FEELS like the Warcraft world, with its cartoonishness and artistic beauty.

As to lighting, the game is well lit, and you will never need artificial lighting. However, if you WANT it, you can always buy a (permanent) torch and wear it (unfortunately, it goes in your primary hand slot, so you can either wield a torch or a weapon). Torchlight flickers realistically and casts shadows.

Section IX: Travel and Communication

The world is big – really big. According to one dev, it takes one hour and forty-five minutes to travel from one extreme tip of a continent to the far other tip, using roads and going by foot. Your first trip to ANY destination will be by foot – until you visit a travel nexus (a.k.a. “taxi port”), you will not have access to traveling there via the faster methods, so you will NEED to explore the old-fashioned way to begin. Later on, travel will get MARKEDLY faster for a character, what with steeds, magic, taxis, boats, and other travel options. (Interesting example: there is a train that runs from Ironforge to Stormwind.) At maximum level, that hour-and-forty-five-minute trip will be MUCH faster – even instantaneous for some classes (mages, for example, can teleport to cities and then between them). Early on, you will find yourself limited in your travel range, mostly by the dangers of long-distance travel and how unsafe the world is. This won’t be disastrous, though; starting areas are RIPE with content, not to mention well-populated. Also, some races start quite close to one another (e.g., Dwarves and Gnomes, or Taurens and Orcs), so you’ll even have interracial grouping possibilities right from the get-go. According to one dev, after about the 10th level it should be fairly easy to move around the world and gather with your friends.

Getting lost will be well-nigh impossible. The mini map can will always have pointers indicating interesting destinations, like local dungeons or cities. Furthermore, there is a built-in world map that shows you where you are relative to the globe, and the world map can be zoomed for more detail on a zone-by-zone basis. (As of now, there is talk of enhancing this feature with the Cartography skill, but how that would work has yet to be determined. For now, there is no “fog of war” or “unlocking” to be done on the global map, though that may change in the future.) Also, all of your current group members show up on your mini-map, so there won’t be any more 20-minute sessions of trying to find the guy who went LD while you were running from hither to thither. Basically, unless you are VERY deep in a dungeon, you shouldn’t have to worry about getting lost, and even THERE, Blizzard is working to make it easier to find your way.

When your friends log in, you will instantly be alerted to their presence; similarly when they log out. Both the Friends list and the Ignore list are long enough to be non-binding. (I asked one dev which of his was more full and he didn’t even hesitate when he said “Ignore.” I thought he was kidding, but he insisted he was being serious; apparently, Blizzard’s in-house crew has quite a few Chatty Cathy’s in the mix whose mouths runneth over.)

Section X: Beta

Unfortunately, I have little to say about this, since information is (understandably) hard to come by. I DID find out one thing: they WILL miss their Q4 goal. The dev who told me this seemed surprised to find out that this was not common knowledge, and other devs told me that there was still no word as to whether or not they would make Q4, but we have all pretty much come to the conclusion that Q4 isn’t realistic anymore, and the dev who said they would miss the deadline was quite reliable. Besides, it sounds like they won’t miss it by MUCH.

When the beta goes live, here are some things to expect:

1. Hefty community interaction. Blizzard sees no reason to start a beta and NOT rely on tester feedback. Expect some sort of “team leader” style channeling of information, although how exactly they gather info from testers is still open for discussion. Ultimately, though, Blizzard IS interested in finding out what its testers think.
2. Right from the start, Blizzard wants the beta server to be “populated.” There was discussion of throwing in 500 testers (ARBITRARY number) right off the bat to stress-test the n00b zones, so expect the initial invite to be sizeable, though not infinite.
3. “When the server can handle 500, we’ll throw 1000 at it. When that works, we’ll move to 5000. No timeline.” In other words, beta will grow as fast as possible, but not at any artificial pace. How quickly new players are added will be determined organically, based on what works and what doesn’t. (Again, all numbers in the beta section are arbitrary.)

Section XI: Miscellany

Well, I’ve included almost everything from the thirteen pages of notes I took at Gen Con, but there were a few miscellaneous tidbits that didn’t fit anywhere else. Here they are, in absolutely no order:

    As of now, there is no falling damage in game. However, that will change – mountains are obstacles, and should be treated as such. What the falling penalty will be is not yet determined, though; the devs are unsure whether they want falls to be potentially lethal or not.
    Scrolls come in two types: casting scrolls and learning scrolls. Both are one-shot deals, but whereas a learning scroll permanently adds a new spell to a caster’s spellbook, casting scrolls can be read by many (for some scrolls, ALL) classes for a one-time effect.
    Scrolls grant new spells and are acquired either as loot drops or from trainers (at a price).
    As of now, there are no mini-games implemented, though the devs want to include them, even if they don’t make release. Two Orcs may very well unwind from a long day’s bloodletting over a relaxing game of Mah Jongg….
    Ammunition, arrows, guns, and bows all have quality markers. You can use outstanding ammunition in a shoddy gun, or shoddy ammunition in an outstanding gun. Same for bows and arrows.
    Rituals require more than one character; the largest ritual is yet to be determined, but the devs are bantering around the number “20” as of now. These rituals will be cast in sequence, with the first character casting the first part, the second casting the second part, and so on until the ritual is done. Some rituals may need all characters to be of a single class, while others may not. As of now, only warlocks have rituals, but that could easily change in the future – potentially, there might be some wartime ritual that requires 20 Warriors to perform.
    While some attacks are positional (i.e., “backstab”), there is no positional bonus; i.e., you gain no extra to-hit bonus or damage bonus just by standing behind a mob, as opposed to in front of it.

































 
Gen Con
by Eternal

Back to Index

A visit to Gen Con on 12/12/03 by Eternal.

Ok Here it is. My long awaited and anticipated write up on my visit to Gen Con and my 5 hours visiting at the Blizzard Booth. This isn’t so much a write up as it is a jumble of immense and overwhelming information.

First of all, I know many of you have questions about the game and I have asked on many boards for people to come up with questions to ask me and I’ll do my best to answer them.

We’ll start with Beta, because I know it is on everyone’s mind. The representatives that were there did not know that much about beta. I know that right now they are building their servers and getting them ready to test. It is not looking good for Q4 beta release. We do know that Blizzard isn’t the best with keeping release dates, so the release of beta might not be in Q4. They may have sign ups, but will probably not have beta. They are, however, very excited about the game and can’t wait to release it. So, my thinking is that this will mean a short beta if they plan to have it out by their release date of sometime in June (I don’t know if this is the month, but I remember reading this somewhere). The game is still being perfected. It is Blizzard, so they are trying to fix as many things as they can before they even release beta, which is a good thing. It means that beta might be short but they might release on time (for once, hah!).

Now this is some sketchy and somewhat contradictory information between two of the reps I spoke with. Hero Classes, as such, according to the first person I talked to, will not be in the game. As far as he knew you could not become a Demonhunter if you were a Night Elf Warrior. He told me that basically you are always a hero, from level 1 to 60. Level 60 is the set cap right now. Like I said, you are a Hero in training. At level 40 you’re able to get mounts. As far as he knew you would not be able to get anything else as far as titles go. You are however going to be able to get the Hero abilities. For example, you might be able to get the Archmage’s Blizzard spell once your character reaches a certain level (40?). As far as character titles go, i.e. Bloodmage or Priestess of the Moon, they will not be attainable as of now. This is all the information provided by one of the representatives.

Ok now for the other rep that I spoke with. He said that it might be possible to make a Dwarf Warrior into a Mountain King. That is where everything gets fubared. One thing he said was that if you were able to become a hero that it would be something that would be a HUGE ACCOMPLISHMENT and it would be very hard to get.

As far as specific SERVERS are concerned, he said that there were currently NO plans to implement a PvP server or an RP server (sorry).

When I asked about accounts being only restricted to one faction, he gave me a funny look like I had something on my face. He said that there are no restrictions on the factions of accounts and there weren’t any restrictions on the build that I was playing either (good news; bad news?).
The Racial abilities:

    Undead – They have a natural resistance to Charm, Sleep, and Fear (spells). They also can’t drown. Being undead, they don’t have to breathe. I saw the drowning animation. It was hilarious. Undead know both the Common Language and the Orcish Language.

    Tauren – No new information. Plains running seemed to be all they would tell me.

    Humans – As of right now, the rep told me that they will get extra skill/training Points per level. This is done for balancing issues between, say, a huge Orc and a weakling human (referring to the size difference).

    Night Elves – They have a natural resistance to Nature. They also have Shadowmeld. (This is a form of “Hide”. It basically allows the Night Elf to hide and act as a form of escape.) He told me that they couldn’t currently move during Shadowmeld because they wanted to make the Rogue’s stealth abilities unique to the Rogue class.

Reputation can be earned by doing certain quests and that kind of thing. I didn't really get into that.

Engineering. You can make Exploding Sheep: a sheep that walks around and blows up when it finds a target. If there isn't one it will stay near you, acting as a guardian. Also the little Harvesters can be made as well.

Also you must have Herbalism to pick up plants and such.

There isn't much for Guild systems and support. They said originally they had to have 10 people to make a guild but recently they were able to do it with one. There will be Guild taverns after forming a guild. These will be pretty expensive in terms of gold and you’ll be able to see the building animation of the Guild tavern. They seriously want and are hoping for player/Guild housing (place to store stuff, possibly the difference between housing and the taverns), but it’s not going to be in their original beta release.

The Interface is fully customizable if you know XML. He said you can do all types of things with it.

Items. He said that they came up with a pretty awesome system to prevent hardcore twinking and duping. When you pick up an item or receive an item, the item is made for you. It is unique to your character. For special items you receive or loot, you’ll be able to bind that item to yourself. When you drop an item, it is destroyed. There are particle effects on swords and weapons in general.

Dueling can be done anywhere and is consensual between the two players involved. Once you get to 0 health, you don't die, just regenerate (not real PK). I didn't experience the arenas or PK zones... yet!

Player driven economy will be AWSOME. There will be NPCs you can sell your stuff to, like your junk and stuff for a relatively fair price.

There are market channels. You join a market channel, let’s say "3" (the one we were using). After someone in some place join the channel, he or she says “/3 wants to sell ”, and the item name will be put in the message. When you click enter, the message goes through. Any person seeing that message can hover their mouse over the name and it will bring up the stats, so they can see whether or not they can use it. And then one person can say “/3 I want it, I’ll give you blah blah blah for it.” It’s basically an auction. It was sweet.

Rogues are more "powerful" then warriors. They do more damage, per say. They have stealth. They also have the ability to walk around unnoticed and pick pocket (a skill). They can thieve from you.

Shamans can put up Totems (the ones with the eyes) to see far ahead of them. First you cast it and click on the map. Then a little icon in the top right appears, and you can click that to see what’s there. It’s good for raids and that sort of thing (not sure what that would be for, possibly the 10% PvP regions).

Mages have staves for attacking and wands for spellcasting. Staves are used to melee a creature and wands can cast spells. For example, a wand can have a spell to deal damage. Then you can cast your normal spell, like Icebolt and Firebolt.

Spells are interrupted and take longer to cast if you are hit. If you aren’t facing the target, your spell fails. The same is true with attacking.

NPCs attack non-faction members on sight. One of the QA guys I was playing with, really cool guy by the way, teleported his Dwarf to the Undead starting town. I challenged him to a duel and then the NPCs started attacking him. I killed him and he cheated and resurrected himself with the command box that the developers use.

NPC guards in the Undead starting town were attacking the undead that were “mindless.” They were fully mobile and seemed to wander the town.

The “noobie” quests were really cool. I got to level 5 in no time. I didn’t even realize I was leveling and I forgot to train stuff because I was having so much fun.

For the traveling system, you can travel from one point to another. For example, if I recall correctly, while riding Gryphons, you can discover faster routes to a city. That isn’t a fact but I remember him saying something like this. You have to remember I was overwhelmed with excitement and immense knowledge at the same time.

Swimming. You can drown, except if you’re Undead, because they don’t have to breathe. Undead or mages in general can conjure food. Food makes you regenerate.

Buffs. Wizard's Intellect gives +2 to Intellect. Intellect increases your Mana and Spirit Increases your Regeneration.

Strength increases all types of damage. I thought that was kind of odd, so I’m going to double check on that, but that’s what the QA girl said.

Ok well that’s all she wrote for the 12th. I’m going back on Sunday (tomorrow) hopefully, and I’ll get some more information and bathe in the self-satisfaction received from playing this awesome game. Please excuse any and all grammatical errors, I was in a hurry to get this out to you, the public, and I hope you all enjoy it.

Written by:
_Eternal_
An Editor for the World of Warcraft Vault and proud member of the United Legions


















Gen Con
by 21_Blessings

Back to Index

Let me give you some advice: never look at a screen shot of WoW again. This game looked absolutely amazing in person. This is game is graphically perfect in my opinion. Screenshots do not give this game justice one bit.

I leveled up a Human Pally to level 6 (all by questing) and messed around with a level 20 undead warlock for about an hour and half. The warlock was badazz. Never had so much fun. John Meyer was telling me about the ritual summon that was just put in for warlock. The warlock intiates the spell, and two other group memebers (any class) channels their energy and they can summon a player to anywhere on the map. Also, reign of fire is the most badazz spell I've ever seen. It has a huge AOE radius and does massive damage--unreal. I also noticed, the Undead get under water breathing...but I think we knew that already. This is just a guess, but methinks that it will pretty tough to solo in high levels in this game. The aggro is pretty crazy, and level 14+ mobs were whooping me pretty bad at times. But we'll see.

Their higher level Pally wasn't working at the time, so I created a new one. Right off the bat, I already had a quest..then another quest...then boom I'm level two. The first 5 levels I gained, I never ONCE had to sit down and rest. It was all fast paced. While the Paladin can use Swords and other weapons, he can Specialize (use his talent points) to raise his 2H Hammer or Mace skill or his spell damage or his damage to Undead or beasts. This game will own the MMO industry for many years.

I really don't understand why this game isn't released yet. I could of sworn I was playing a final product. Anarchy Online, right now, is not as smooth as WoW in this so called Alpha version. Of course the were being extra ambiguous and wouldn't even give a guess for the release date! I'm for sure going back tomorrow afternoon and I'll definetely try more of the classes out.

Oh one more thing...Gnomes get FROST resistance as racial trait.

Peace

Engineering
Two words..EXPLODING SHEEP. Yeah I said it, exploding sheep are the game. You have to build them the engineering trade skill. Craziest thing I ever saw, after you've built your robot sheep, you click on the icon in your inventory and sheep appears on screen. It becomes your guardian. Once it sees the first hostile creature, it will waddle on over (it was a covert waddle ) and it will explode and and cause extreme damage to the target. Then I witnessed 10 exploding sheep (at the same time) wipe out an entire area. These suckers are relentless, lol it was like seek and destroy. Awesome. You can also build a mini robot Harvest Golem. This guy was buff, he could handle some business. I can see engineering being a VERY popular trade school.

Gnomes!
Gnomes were working! Trolls were too, but they weren't allowed to show us due to a problem with their hair . Gnomes are sooooooooooo badazz and cute in a sick twisted kinda way. Their VOICE emotes were pretty entertaining. Each race can emote voices that the rest of the world can hear..like help, oom, heal, cheer, roar etc. Chick NE sound like phone sex operators, not that I would know of course...Oh, I saw the Battle Ram mounts, they look badazz and I think Gnomes will use them like the Dwarves, this is what I was told. Gnomes have HUGE hands, heheh I was watching a Gnome mage throw fireballs..it looked amazing. As for Mages, they get this awesome frost nova shield (name might be wrong) but when a mob HITS you they become SLOWED...this give the mage time to create space and cast more spells. Mages will be the king of kiting.

PALADIN!!
Oh yes, this will be my main for sure. At level 20, DIVINE SHIELD grants immunity from ALL attacks for TEN seconds--I know calm down. Who said Pally's can't tank?? Holy light + Divine Shield + lay on hands( still 60 min cooldown) looks like a pretty badazz tank to me. Paladins will be undead killing MACHINES, this applies to PCs and MOBS. Paladins get spells like: Turn undead, sense undead, Exorcism, (direct dmg or dot I forgot)judgement(not sure what it does) and a few others. Wow.

Shaman
Shaman's can shapeshift into a timber wolf..just like SOW from Everquest, just a speed buff. Shamans are not tanks. Shamans use TOTEMS..kinda hard to explain, for example they have a sight totem. You cast the sight totem and its placed on the ground. Now the shaman can run over the hill to the west and still see EVERYTHING in the radius of the sight totem (ambush anyone?). They also have a serpent totem (looks like a snake, which attacks), healing totems and many others. Of course they buffs, dots and all that good stuff as well.

Rogue
Rogues have the coolest named abilities in teh game imo. Finishing moves like "kidney shot", "cheap shot"..thats what I'm talking about. Furor from FOH told you about the bubbles right? Well the rougue performs abilities that add bubbles to your bubble counter (5 total, right next to your face icon) for example, the ability "rip and tear" will add one bubble to the counter if it is landed. Then when you get enough bubbles, you can use finishing moves like "kidney shot"..cool stuff. Rogues CAN DUEL WEILD..though Warriors and Hunters CAN NOT duel weild (don't yell at me..this is what I told Don't know if this will hold true. I speak no more on the matter). Also, Rogues can make poison. And you can add this to weapons..heres the cool thing. You can TRADE for services. Say, John the Warrior wants poison effect for his sword. Dave the Rougue wants boots and ten gold. You open the trade menu between them and John puts in the boots, gold AND sword...the Rougue can automatically upgrade the weapon once the trade accept button is hit. And the warrior will automatically get back his new upgraded sword and the Rougue will get his boots and gold. Oh and the poison effect WAS cool..everytime you hit a beast a green cloud with skulls inside pop up and poison the beast. Rogues ALSO get SPRINT ability to make a fast get away. They also get special skills like "street fighting" and "Acrobatics", not quite sure what each does..but I think they add extra damage..

Hunter
Remember the ORANGE bar in screenshots? Well this is the Hunter's FOCUS. It makes their ranged attack more accurate.

Warrior
The warrior gets KICK, the animation is badazz, the warrior ACTUALLY does a kick animation!!!! Imagine...Gnome Warrior + jump + Kick

Druid
They get this cool underwater mount. It looks like a polar bear/panther/dunnowtf...it looks crazy lol

Priest
Dominate was in the game..but the max level was only 25 so it couldn't be cast. At least I tried

Cows are in the game...they weren't allowed to reveal the exact location on them though. But the cow looked badazz. They also summoned a couple Dread Lords and Fel Fiends (I think they might of been called something else). They also said the biggest mob in the game was a Kodo beast...then one of the reps said they SEEN a Dragon though....

This game looks AMAZING. I saw MANY different zones and every one was extremely detailed and diverse. No more of that dull everything looks the same crap. Even the instanced dungeon was detailed to the BONE. The one I saw, Shadow Fang Keep, the farther you went inside the more detailed it became..crazy. And the boss mob droped this WICKED mace, which looked like a Cobra Snake...badazz.

Humans get extra points for tradeskills as a racial trait. Dwarves get: natural mining, treasure finding (senses treasure on map) and frost resistance. Night elves get shadowmeld (kinda like stealth, so it might be tweaked) and nature resistance. Undead get immunity to charm and fear spells.

Theres also alot more I forgot to write, but my brain is on overload right now as I'm writing all of this off the top of my head. Ask questions if you want.

peace

A few more notes:

    I FORGOT..you can also BUILD little squirrels. But they don't actually do anything...you can build a whole bunch and they just follow you around.

    Also, they said the max level in final will probably be around 60..

    You guys there are SO MANY skills you can put your talent points into. For the Paladin you can put points into defense, regeneration, holy magic, undead slayer, beast slayer, strength, hitpoints, agility, intellect, spirit and lots of other things. Me personally, will be using a 2H sword for sure. I'll probably end up bumping my undead killing ability to the max...I'm going to be a undead killing machine.

    Also, every time you use Talent points to raise a skill during levels 1-10 it will add +1..10-20 +2...20-30 +3....etc.

    I didn't get to see much of the priest but they had some pretty powerful direct damage spells...I'm not sure what the level restriction for Dominate was...but when the level 25 undead priest tried to cast it, he didn't have enough mana. Don't WORRY the priest has a whole plethora of spells to choose from.

    Crap one BIG piece of info I forgot to add, I asked the rep if you could attack while on mounts and he said, with confidence, "Yes." I was like "Are you serious?" He said "Yeah."

















    E3 New Information Summary

    Thanks to Kyan Mehwulfe for the following summary of new information revealed at E3:
    
    General compilation of news of interest to beta testers that I've found so far.
    
    http://pc.gamespy.com/pc/world-of-warcraft/514158p1.html
    "Kaplan revealed that the next phase of the beta will be rolling out in a couple of weeks and will open up much more of the game for the legions of testers. The first new aspect of the beta will be the level cap - enough of the high level content has been completed that the team is now comfortable raising the level to 55."
    
    "Kaplan revealed that 5 new zones are getting ready to roll out, Ajami, the Burning Steppes, the Hinterlands, Tamaris and Feralas"
    
    Last interesting piece on some future content:
    "Near the end of my demonstration, though, Kaplan let slip a few more things. The first was that the game's combat will be undergoing changes as new dungeons get pushed out. The dungeon team is working to vary the style of combat that players will face - many of the new dungeons will be filled with low-level creatures that attack in swarms and can't be crowd controlled. They've also been testing a level 35-45 instanced dungeon that has as its end boss a stone titan that continually brings other statues in the room to life. Then he looked around to see if anyone was watching and teleported to a new area.
    
    "This is an ultra-high level raid zone." He said. "In fact, this is pretty much end-game content." He was running through an area that players will find filled with demons and dragons battling each other. "Warcraft III players will recognize this mountain." He said, "And the challenge here is to re-purify the Well of Eternity. In fact, as you travel through this area, you might even find a very familiar skeleton chained to a rock." And with that cryptic remark, my demonstration was done."
    
    http://blizzard.com/misc/e3/2004/wow/faq.shtml
    "Q. When will the game be released in the U.S. and Korea?
    A. The game is scheduled for simultaneous release in both the United States and Korea at the end of 2004."
    
    http://insider.ign.com/e3_streaming.html
    Can't link to any quotes but I was watched the stream for much of the morning. The short interview with Rob mainly just mentioned stuff we already know about easing new gamers into the genre and PvP, but new was the info that we access (some? all?) PvP battlefields via air steeds like gryphons from our capital cities, by talking to Battlemasters. He mentioned seige, controlling gold mines, fighting for an enemy fort, and PvP rewards, though WorldOfWar.net and CGW magazine have both touched on that before.
    
    http://wowvault.ign.com/screenshots/index.php?ss=1246
    http://wowvault.ign.com/screenshots/?ss=1247
    http://wowvault.ign.com/screenshots/?ss=1242
    Darkspear troll, undead Forsaken, and Night elf mounts.
    
    http://www.worldofwar.net/
    -Talent System will be structured like Skills were in Diablo II with a tree and possibly with Synergies.
    -Heroes will be available for characters that max out in their first class (60th level). The hero class progression is designed to be very, very difficult and arduous.
    -World of Warcraft will not have a built-in voice communication feature, you'll need to go third party for that.
    -How about an Expansion? Sounds like that will be the plan once the game goes gold.
    -Pandaren will be in the game but as a quest-giving special NPCs, not a mob or playable.
    -Your PvP exploits will appear in your reputation page.
    
    http://pc.ign.com/articles/514/514811p1.html
    Though many assumed it based on level increase, mounts are indeed confirmed for next push. Also an example of how the Talent system will allow ability customization: "...Mages will be able to specialize all the way down the fire magic path in order to get a special spell at the end that only these types of mages can have."
    
    http://wowvault.ign.com/?dir=events/e3_2004&content;=interview
    -"We have noticed that running into the opposite faction outside the PvP zones is an issue. It feels funky and broken and we're looking into it."
    -"Q. There are a lot of dungeons that are the same dungeon model with just different textures. Do you have any plans to change this?"
    "A. Joshua Kurtz: We have recently added in a whole bunch more. We created about five or six more caves."
    -"Q. WoW Vault: Are you going to add seasonal changes? For example, if it is winter in the real world, will it be winter in the game?"
    A. Joshua Kurtz: We would like to do something like that. I'm not sure if it's going to be in at release or part of an expansion or something like that."
    -"All the races will be undergoing a poly upgrade."
    
    http://wow.warcraftstrategy.com/articles.php?article=59
    -Next push by the end of this month, no comment on next phase
    -Game will ship this year and open beta will start 1-2 months before launch
    -Unsure on Hunter addition status, maybe not next push?
    -Plate mail and mounts about ready to be added, but unsure about higher level cap
    -"they want [PvP] to primarily revolve around players skill rather than items or level. That being said he added that even the most skilled level 30 wouldn’t be very likely to kill a level 50" -IM feature to let people chat with people in-game from out-of-game is apparently in the works

    