
 Impressions of the Druid, Druids rule...
Track this topic | Email this topic | Print this topic
BetaTesterSelack 	
Posted: Apr 19th 2004, 01:25 AM
[ Quote ]












	
To be honest, I was not really looking forward to playing the Druid. I really wanted to play my Orc Hunter. But, as I started the Path of the Emerald Dream, I came to realize that Druids Kick Arse! Although they can only wear Cloth and Leather armors at the moment, it is enough with their varied buff spells to allow one to group and solo. Their healing, which will never par with a Priest, is decent. Their true strength, lies in Shapeshifting. Just tonight, I reached Tenth level, and bought the ability to shapeshift into a Bear. This is one odd bear. A cross between Bear and Wolf I would say, but mostly bear. I immediately purched Maul (Similiar to the Warrior's Strike ability) and Demoralizing Roar (Removes either 20 damage or to hit, not quite sure yet). When you change form, the hefty price you pay in mana is not to be worried about. For when you change, you gain a Rage bar in place of the Mana bar. For your choices at the moment, you have Staff or Hand-To-Hand to use to deal damage. I am trying to gain the Unarmed Weapons Skill at the moment to see if it has any affect on the Shapeshifting form's damage, but it requires 50 skill points.

I shall continue to update my post as I advance. If anyone has any questions, please ask.
	
Top
ac196nataku 	
Posted: Apr 19th 2004, 03:41 PM
[ Quote ]












	
this might be posted somewhere else but im a little confused. what are all of the currently available forms?
	
Top
Chib 	
Posted: Apr 19th 2004, 04:26 PM
[ Quote ]












	
The only other form I've seen is Wolf. And I the Unarmed Weapons skill is actually going to be used for stuff like claws, etc. (since Warriors can get it aswell).

This post has been edited by Chib on Apr 19th 2004, 04:26 PM
	
Top
Sweet Tooth 	
Posted: Apr 19th 2004, 04:29 PM
[ Quote ]












	
Yay, druid information! What are the type of buffs that are good for groups? Don't forget screenshots.
	
Top
BetaTesterSelack 	
Posted: Apr 19th 2004, 11:07 PM
[ Quote ]












	
Current forms I know of are Bear(10th), Aquatic(16th) (Some sort of Seal), Cat(20th), and Travel Form(Really high level).

The party buffs so far: Thorns (Deals nature damage when you are hit) and Mark of the Wild (AC increase and, as you advance this spell, ALL STATs increase)

Moonfire: Instant arcane damage + DOT

Wrath: Nature damage

Entangle: Root + DOT

Healing Touch: Healing

Rejuvinate: Healing Over Time

Starfire: Arcane Damage

Remove Curse: Removes 1 Curse Effect

Growl (Bear Form): Adds a amount of Threat

Regrowth: Heals another unit

Remove Poisen: Removes 1 Poisen Effect

Faerie Fire: Removes Armor from target, as well as prevents stealth abilities

Soothe Animal: Reduces target's threat range

Abolish Poisen: Removes 1 Poisen Effect and 1 more every 2 seconds

Tranquility: heals party members for its duration, but channeling must be maintained

Various abilities for the Shapeshifting form are given, but it is an extensive list. I am sorry for the mistake on the Storm Crow, what it is said to be is just a Travel Form. No description. As is aquatic form, no description, but a level 18 Druid told me it was a Seal. For those of you who have never seen a seal fight, they can be quite dangerous. I have faith in Blizzard to make it interesting, and at level 16 (4 more levels!) I will find out for sure.

This post has been edited by BetaTesterSelack on Apr 21st 2004, 01:20 AM
	
Top
sworen 	
Posted: Apr 20th 2004, 12:30 AM
[ Quote ]












	
theres an actual flying creature you can become? granted you probably can only fly a certain maintained height but still thats pretty cool. The transformations sounds cool and interesting. My only problem is... a seal? doesn't seem much for an aquatic creature. 