The Mage Impressions, My Opinions of the Mage
Track this topic | Email this topic | Print this topic
Deathwing 	
Posted: Mar 23rd 2004, 03:34 AM
[ Quote ]


Administrator
**

Group: Admin
Posts: 186
Member No.: 1
Joined: Jan 15 2003



	
After nearly two days of playing, I think I can formally give a few first impressions on the Mage.

First of all, I'd like to say that this game is not just a MMORPG version of Diablo II. I came into the game, expecting the Mage to be some sort of copy of the Sorceress, considering that they both have Elemental Spells that deal direct damage.

However, unlike Diablo II, there are much, much more different spells to choose from. And that's not including spells which are just beefed up versions of previous ones.

While I'm not sure if this is the case at higher levels, but so far all spells have had a use, even when better ones are available.

For example, while the Rank 2 Fireball deals nearly twice as much damage of Rank 1 (think of Rank as higher versions of original spells), it has a 50% higher casting cost and around 30% higher casting time. Due to the fact that you're spells can be disrupted if you get damaged while casting, the Rank 1 Fireball is still useful for finishing off low health troops.

Another is Fireblast, which is a spell that has instant casting time, but has a cooldown of 10s. This means that its great to use in Combo with another spell to deal heaps of damage in melee.

The most welcoming change from Diablo II, however, is that you buy Higher Ranked Versions of Spells, rather than spend Talent/Skill Points on them. This means that a player can have a wide range of high level spells in his inventory, rather than saving all the points for Frozen Orb.

It all ends up having a Mage that can use a wide variety of spells, from different schools of magic, without penalty. There's much more diversity, and so, fighting is a lot more fun.

The Mage's Schools of Magic are Fire, Cold, Arcane and Conjuration. So far, all 4 have been useful. Fire to Deal Damage, Cold as support, Conjuration to create food/water and Arcane for Buffs.

It's good news that playing a mage will not nearly be as monotonous as playing a Sorceress in Diablo II!

I've also included some screenshots listing a few of the Mages Spells, check them out at
