Trade Skills, Are they useful?
Track this topic | Email this topic | Print this topic
Deathwing 	
Posted: Mar 30th 2004, 05:03 AM
[ Quote ]












	
One of the major questions that people have about World of Warcraft is whether Trade Skills are useful? Heck, when given the option, would someone spend his Skill Points on being able to wield a Two Handed Sword over being bale to Mine a few Copper Blocks from Copper Mines?

Well, after playing the Beta for over a week, I can say that almost all Trade Skills are currently useful, some especially so.

You see, the Trade Skills in WOW are basically broken up into two types. Servicing skills which create ingredients that are used by other skills, such as Mining and Herbalism, and Production Skills which create useful items.

For Example, Enchant uses Herbs to enchant weapons, Alchemy uses Herbs to create Potions. Smithing uses Copper Ore to create armor, and Engineering uses Copper to create Guns etc.

Now the casual player would think, "What's the point of getting just Mining?" I mean, its not like that Copper Bar is gonna help you out in a fight! But that looks to be short sighted.... Copper Bars are currently the most coveted item in the beta. My Level 10 Warrior managed to sell Copper Bars for 2 Silver Each. To put that in perspective, most Level 10s never see more than 10 Silver in their inventory, and here I was, gaining 50 silver from every mining trip... which would only take about 30 minutes!

You see, there's so many people with Production Skills, they need reagents to train their skills. For your skills only go up if you practice them. What that meant was that while High Level Players with lots of gold would never want an item a Level 10 could find, they want the Copper Ore as much as anyone else. So... it's really instant cash!

As for the production skills, most of them are obviously useful. First Aid provides nifty bandages which are like Healing Potions with less cooldown, but a 3s casting time. They're great for Classes that don't have Innate Healing. Tailoring is excellent for a Mage, so they can make their own armor, and at higher levels, you can start making and selling pouches for other players. Smithing, Enchanting etc actually can make very nice items....

Yet when it comes down to it, Production Skills increase your fighting ability, but Supporting Skills by far generate the most gold.

Trade Skills still need to have a few things nailed out. Fishing isn't too useful, due to the fact that Food is readily available, and free for mages who often distribute it across an entire party. Similarly, Cooking isn't too useful either. Finally, Survival is currently very much a useless skill, since fires are only really useful for cooking, and people can always cook in town or camps, which are at most 5 minutes away.

Despite that, most Trade Skills have their uses, and already there are players setting themselves up as merchants. Minors who spend their time proving Ore to Smiths, Herbalists who auction thier Herbs to Enchanters. Smiths and Enchanters who have their own Ore, Herb contacts, and who are well known for the items they produce.

With a bit more tweaking, the Trade Skill system will become very successful, and an alternative to questing. After all, in just a day, the Warrior has earned himself enough Gold to buy items that Level 25s would envy!

Motto of the Story? Miners Rule! Cooking Fires don't!

