source: http://web.archive.org/web/20031210211250/http://www.worldofwar.net/pressdesk/030626.php


Title: A Transcript of the MrFixItOnline.com E3 Video.
Date: 26 June 2003

WorldofWar.net is pleased to offer the World of Warcraft community a mirror of the MrFixItOnline.com 2003 E3 movies. We have been granted permission to not only host the movies, but we were also granted permission to strip the audio from the largest download and present it as an MP3 for those of you who can't handle such a large download. Finally, for those of you who are interested, we have transcribed the relevant portions of the long interview below.

As with our movies, we are asked to remind you that these movies were taken without the benefit of a tripod and are not of the same quality as the Blizzard official movies.

    Character Selection Screen[3.3MB]
    Mage Video[2.9MB]
    Druid Video[20.5MB]
    Warlock Video[13.2MB]
    Long Game Walk Through[254.4MB]!!

    Long Game Walkthrough (audio only)[23.4MB]

==========Start of Audio Transcript==========

So this is the starting zone for the night elves this is where their city is and this is where their beginning area is.

And it's very lush, very overgrown fully green

We want to get across the point that night elves are very much into nature.

Let's run through here, I'll change forms as we go. So you can see how fast it happens. We like the idea of people being able to change form rather quickly. Use it as a tactical means rather than something cool they can do.

This is one of the night elf buildings. One of their structures. Very first structure that as a night elf player you will see. That people will see We wanted to get across the feel of their architecture how it's different from everyone else. So as you can move around it or through it, you'll see it's build out of the center of a large tree. a huge tree.

As you move through it, you'll notice that everything is built out of wood like it's built out of the very tree itself.

Even deep inside of at the center of the tree you feel like you're inside a tree. That tree's been grown for the needs of the night elves.

As well as being able to go into it, you can even climb up the outside of it. They built ramps.

So it goes up and you can get a good view. Just use the mouse wheel and you can change the view of the character. All the way out to third person. Gives you quite a view of the surrounding. Then crank it in, all the way to first person.

Falling damage isn't in yet. Here you went so far stand for tree.

Swimming animations for the animals.

And he's hanging out in stranglethron right now. Near an orc village, on the coast.

So down here we got our hotbar for all of our skills.

Up here we have our character pane, shows us portrait of our character, level, health bar.

I'm going to head out and start fighting.

Controls are fairly simple. Just like a first person shooter. WASD to move, right mouse mouse to mouse lick. Fairly easy.

Here is our first prey. We're going to come up here and beat on him. Start our fight. We're going to start to use our skills to take him down.

Throw up a stance. What the stance does, it makes me do more damage, over the next I think it's ten seconds, I'll do more damage every time I hit him.

[Kind of looks like bloodlust.]

Yeah, that's kind of what it's like.

Throw a demoralizing shout at him. Lower his attack rating.

You'll notice while I'm fighting, all of the damage and everything, it's out of the chat window. I can say something and it's won't spam it out of my window so I'll always see it.

All the damage I do to him pops over his head. It's always there, easy to see. All the damage he does to me pops up over my portrait. Once again, always there, easy to see. Doesn't get in the way.

[Does he have any special skills he can use?]

Ah I'm actually using them. You'll notice when I use a special skill he'll use a different animation than he normally does and there is particles coming off his weapons.

This guy is almost dead, so I'll show you with the next one.

You'll also notice the experience pops up on the window, if I get experience, I probably won't this guy is too low level.

And there he goes, he's dead.

So I'll note it. And to keep down on downtime, I'll pop a couple healing potions, or a healing potion. You'll notice that the regeneration of the life, the hit points goes pretty quick especially if I sit down. If I had any food it would go even faster.

So let's find a new target.

[Is there any spells he can use?]

This guys is a straight warrior, he doesn't actually have any spells. just his warrior skills.

So I'm going to take out this guy up here.

And I'm going to use a whirlwind on him. Now the thing about whirlwind is it actually allows me to hit everybody around me. So if I had 5 or 6 creatures fighting me at the same time. I could unload this and just draw some serious argo.

So he's basically a tank? He could draw in 4.,5 enemies and heal him from behind. [yeah]

And if that doesn't work, I can always taunt.

So here's a special ability. You'll notice different animation and some particle affects coming off the blade when he swings.

Another stance, get myself some glowing fists.

All of these have a number associated with them so if I didn't feel like clicking them I could just use the number pad, not the number pad but the number keys.

There we go.

I'm going to show you our mage. Fighting style is totally different.

Head down here and find some creatures to kill.

Here we go.

We got here a wetlands crolisk. And we got our mage, so first thing I'm going to do with the mage is I'm going to polymorph the crocklist. And it's a sheep. So let's cast some spells at it while it's a sheep and can't fight back.

Turning him into a sheep doesn't not last forever. There he goes, so now he's up on me. Mage can't take very good damage, so I need to do some stuff to keep him from getting to me. So I'm going to do a chains of ice which roots him

I'm going to move out of the way

Flame blast him.

Cast some spells while I can. Before he breaks. Now when he gets right up to me, I do have fast spells. That shouldn't get interrupted because they are so fast.

So I'm going to throw some of those at him, while he's beating on me. And throw off a frost nova to finish him off. or try to finish him off. He's toast

So now this gnoll, over here, he's getting in my way, i'm not happy with him. So I'm going to use my uber spell at this level, I'm going to do some serious damage to the guy.

And he keeps interrupting me. There we go. That's what I wanted... and there we are. And he's done. But the most fun spell by far... see if I can find, there is another one. is of course the age old favorite on battle.net. Polymorph. Turn him into a sheep and then pick on it.

[Evidently they'll be different critters.]

Yeah, working on that. And they don't last long in that form though so. And if you try to do it again, they're just immune to it. Can only do it once.

Oh now he's immune to the chains of ice, that's not good. Throw off the frost nova, that will slow him down. Let me get some distance. And he's dead.

So there are all kinds of different spells that I have and that I use on a regular basis. So it's not just one spell over and over again. I have my frost nova to slow him down and it affects everything around me so if I'm surrounded it's even more useful. You've got poly that takes him out of the fight for a short period of time. Chains of ice that lets me root him a bunch of different damage spells.

And invisibility so I can run around and nobody knows I'm there. it doesn't last very long though. If you mouse over your buffs in the top corner, it will tell you how long they're up.

That guy, looks like he's got a buff on him or a dot. it could be another player around here. No that looks like a buff. That he's got running on him. Some of the creatures will cast buffs on each other, so when you're running along sometimes you'll see a creature casting a buff on his buddies to make them more powerful.

No they don't just stand around they won't wait for you to attack them before helping each other out. They'll gleefully throw buffs on each other making them harder to kill when you get there.

As you'll notice I'm regenerating rather quickly. Almost no downtime.

I love it.

Have you guys seen the druid?

Okay cool.

He's going to interrupt me. No he didn't, I got lucky.

Ah this is a 31st level character, right now most, we're still tweaking some of the spells, making them better or more useful. and making each of the classes fell very unique. Like you'll find that the warlock is also a spell caster, but he doesn't do this direct damage. He throws out dots on his enemies and summons pets to help him out.

Oh he's on me. And again with the frost nova. And he resisted it. Almost dead. And there we go. See my health is down, if I don't want to wait too long I can use some food. Just right click a piece of food and you regenerate faster for a short period of time. Most vendors will have food of some kind or another or you can find someone who has a cooking skill and have them make you some food.

So you'll have somebody who's a cook, he won't just make cake or biscuits or something that you take form time to time to keep you from going hungry. He'll make things that you actually use when you go hunting.

Well we've been thinking about, to be honest I'm not actually sure. Ah I think the higher level you get, the flashier they're going to be. but to be honest if you think about it, how many people who play eq actually keep all the particle effects on when they're playing eq. I don't know anyone who does it. But still it's really cool to have cool looking spells.

I love turning the effects up, I'm always bummed when I have to turn them back down. So our spells will be cool looking, there is no question about that.

Mine? I'm kind of biased; I'm partial to the warriors and fighters who that don't have to use spells. They just go out there and beat on stuff.

I do really like the casters in our game through. This is the first time I've played a mage that I've enjoyed.

And this is one of our flavor creatures; just a little creature hanging around doesn't really do anything. You can take him out real quick. There he is dead.

[Invulnerable creatures?]

I'm not sure. We don't have any in right now, that doesn't mean they won't be there. I suppose my appropriate answer is I don't know.

That is the warlock.

k yeah ,summons up the felhound. Click a button watch him go. And there is your little buddy. Select the target, just right click on his icon, click attack and he's off.

[Do pets do the work?]

Ah no, you have to keep on top of it. it's always good to make sure he's got argo. What I'm doing now is I'm putting dots on him because the warlock has a lot of dots. Let them damage him over time, then I'll throw a couple death coils.

Draw agro to myself. Pull out my dagger and start fighting back. If you do enough damage to it, it will. If you anger it enough. No real freebies.

It's actually a soul tap. Takes a while to recharge. Basically hurts me and heals my pet.

[Can you direct a monster's attack?]

Right well, I can't as a warlock, but some classes like the warrior has taunt so he can pull the creature onto himself.

[Can you do hit and run?]

it will chase me for awhile if I start running away from it. Eventually it will get back on my pet. Cuz as I am running away, I'm not doing any damage. And the pet is still beating on it, so eventually it figures out. Hey wait a sec.

See let's say, I don't have my pet and this guys is fighting me and I don't want to deal with it, I can sleep him and then head off. Once I get far enough away [he'll forget]. See he attacks me, I don't want to deal with him, I'm just going to leave and then I'll summon another pet.

Voidwalker actually. He's a spell caster. So now I'm going to sic him on the guy I put to sleep. No I have an imp as well. He's mad at me because I put him to sleep. The unfortunate thing about this pet is that he doesn't tank as well.

Thing about the void walker is that he takes damage as he goes, eventually he'll just die, so I'll soul tap, hope I don't kill myself. Which was close. Constantly loses life.

==========End of Audio==========

Discuss the contents of this interview in the Community Forum.

Back to Press Desk 