Will there be music in the game?
Yes, there will be music everywhere. The music will change depending on your character’s location and what is happening around you at the time.


Can you run World of Warcraft in a window?
Yes, the game can be run in a window or if you prefer full screen, you will have the ability to alt-tab out of the game.


Will the game have a built in MP3 player?
No but because the game can be played in a window, you will be free to run your own MP3 player in the background.


Can you play the game in the first person view?
Yes, World of Warcraft can be played in first person view. Different viewing options can be selected by utilizing either the keyboard or the mouse.


Are there ways to gain experience in the game besides fighting?
Yes, there will be ways to gain experience other than by fighting. Exploring is just one example of how you can gain experience by simply finding a new area (for your character) within the game.


Will there be support for French Canadians on the North American servers?
We are in the process of hiring some bilingual French/English GMs. While the bilingual staff will be limited, they will exist to handle situations that come up for our non-English speaking customers.


Will there be GM support in the game 24/7?
The GM team is staffing up now – you betchya!


Will there be long waits for GMs to respond to questions when a player needs assistance?
Blizzard is committed to excellent Customer Service. If the wait for GM support is longer than we expect it to be, we will take steps to fix the problem.


Can our characters sit in chairs?
Yes.


Can Warriors solo?
Yes, all classes will have the ability to solo including warriors.


What types of payment options will be available for World of Warcraft?
We are currently investigating several types of payment options and will let everyone know once the decisions are finalized.


Can players own or operate ships?
At this time, all ships are owned and operated by NPCs within the game.


Which classes can heal?
The classes that have the natural ability to heal are as follows:

Priests
Druids
Shamen
Paladins
Warlock (themselves and their pets)
Hunters (their pets)


Will there be special events held in the game for holidays?
Yes! There will be special events held for both “real” holidays and special days created in World of Warcraft.

Can we get some new Gnome Screenshots?
We’ll have some new Gnome shots for you next week, along with a few new Trolls too.