Recently, Donna Anthony aka Katricia joined Blizzard as their World of Warcraft Community Manager. Kingdoms of Azeroth got a chance to ask her some of the questions you submitted, and without further ado, here they are:

You recently were hired by Blizzard for your job as the World of Warcraft Community Manager. How does it feel to work for what is arguably one of the best gaming companies in the world?
I know this is going to sound crazy, but I'm still walking around on cloud nine. I'm in a daze and some days still can't believe my great fortune. Working at Blizzard is a dream come true for me.

Blizzard is without a doubt the best company I've ever worked for. For the first time in my life I can honestly say, "If I won the lottery, I would continue to work."
What is your opinion of the World of Warcraft Community?
The Community is coming along nicely. People are already coming together, starting friendships and joining guilds. This is only going to increase as the game is released, especially once people can start making plans to meet in the game.
Will there be different servers with slightly different rules (example Role Playing Server). If so, what types will there be?
There will probably be various servers such as PvP or RP servers, but in all honesty, this hasn't been decided yet.
Can we expect the classic Blizzard touch of humor in World of Warcraft? You know, exploding sheep, Arthas rock band, that kind of stuff!
Blizzard humor is spread all throughout World of Warcraft. One recently added touch is the cowbell - an accessory for Taurens only, of course.
Of the multitude of posts on the Official Battle.net Forums, what percentage of posts would you say you read? 100%? 90%? 50%?
I read as much as I can, and of course we have others reading the forums too. It's difficult to judge the percentage, as some days I'm able to devote more time to the forums than others. Most people think that if their post doesn't receive a comment, that it hasn't been read. That's simply not the case. We just don't have the time to respond to every single post, but it doesn't mean we aren't reading them.
We know that the Death Penalty is being handled as somewhat of a delicate issue, but could you give us some specifics in what the penalties might be? Will the penalty be unique to the situation (quest, PvP, PvE, etc)?
When a player dies, he or she will appear at a nearby bindstone as a ghost. While in ghost form, a player can neither be seen by nor see the living. The player must now travel back to where his or her corpse is to become corporeal again. Finding one's corpse will be easy, since players will have a minimap marker that clearly shows the way. Because the player's ghost won't be detectable by monsters, the journey back to the corpse won't be dangerous. After getting close enough to where the corpse is, the player will receive the option to be resurrected a small-but-safe distance from where he or she originally fell (to avoid any nearby monsters). Once the player becomes corporeal again, there are no further penalties for death.

Should a player choose not to retrieve his or her corpse, a Spirit Healer (ghostly NPC) will be available at the bindstone to resurrect the player there for a modest loss in experience.

Of course we are still exploring the death-penalty system and will be flexible in keeping our options open for future changes.
How does Blizzard plan on dealing with the selling of items on Ebay?
The selling of characters or items is not a feature supported in World of Warcraft. Any users that choose to participate in this activity do so at their own risk. Blizzard will not facilitate nor mediate in the sale or trading of characters/items. Further, users should be warned that attempts to transfer items between characters can result in lost items or damaged characters. Blizzard is not responsible for lost items or damaged characters.
If two players of a different race, but same faction wanted to group up and play together, how long would it take for them to get together?
Generally speaking, most players should be able to hook up within the first few levels, either by running or using the various modes of transportation.
Since you play as a Priest, what interesting facts can you tell us about this class? Do you think the followers of the Priest will be disappointed? Why do you like the Priest in specific? What are the benefits of playing as a priest?
I always play a healing class. I enjoy the ability to help other players which makes the Priest a perfect fit for me. My main playing preference is group play; however, one of the reasons that I'm especially enjoying the Priest in World of Warcraft is its ability to solo. Sometimes you just need to do something alone and it's nice to know that I can.
What kind of Battle.net forum avatars can we expect from World of Warcraft?
Our forums are being redesigned and will not be a part of Battle.net once World of Warcraft goes live. The new forum avatars will be each player's character portrait, with the ability to click through to the paper doll.