Will there be specific role-playing servers?
We want to ensure that role-players have the best experiences possible in WoW. This may include having specific role-playing servers (and probably will) but that decision has not yet been reached.

Will there be taverns to go to, to hang out in and role play?
Some cities have taverns.

Will there be a way to retrain talent or skill points?
Currently, you can unlearn a skill, but not a talent.

Will skills atrophy if they aren’t used?
No. Once you learn a skill it’s yours for life unless you decide to unlearn it.

Will the UI be customizable?
For those with the desire to customize certain aspects of the UI, they will be able to utilize XML to do so.

Will Blizzard restrict the use of common names such as Robert, Jon, Sarah, etc?
No, however there will be character naming restrictions which will include trademarked names or names that are offensive in nature.

Is there religion in World of Warcraft?
No. Feel free to role-play your own beliefs.

Will there be ways to make weapons glow or have cool effects in WoW like in WCIII?
Yes. There will be many ways to modify your weapons which will change the way your weapon appears. As an example, you might add a fire enchantment that would make your sword glow red and do fire damage.

While there aren’t any differences in racial visions, will there be ways to modify vision with items?
Yes. As an example, engineers can make spy glasses that will allow your character to see farther.

Will there be dragons in the game?
Yes.

Will there be group quests available?
Yes, most definitely.

Will each member of a group receive a quest reward if they participated in completing a quest?
If each member of the group accepted the quest from the quest-giver, each member would also receive the quest reward.

Will there be alcohol in WoW?
Yes. The affects of alcohol have not yet been decided.

What are the different chat options?
The chat system is still in development. The current system includes guild chat and a way for players to create their own chat channels. More options are being created.

Can you display both the melee damage and chat windows at the same time?
Yes.

Besides bows and rifles, what other types of ranged weapons can we expect?
Throwing axes, throwing daggers, wands and crossbows to name a few.

Can rogues use two handed weapons?
No, but they can dual-wield.

Is there a limit on how much money a character can carry?
No.

How does group experience work?
Group exp is still being evaluated. The current system is in its simplest form with everyone sharing the divided experience for a kill.

Will players be able to customize their pet’s statistics, abilities or appearances?
Pets can be trained and customized. This is still being developed so the amount of customization is uncertain.

If an invisible enemy is seen by one person in a group, are they detected by all?
No, however there will be ways for those that see the enemy to “expose” them to others.

Can you cast a spell while running or falling?
There are some spells which can be cast while “on the move.”

Will there be sub-classes in the game?
Currently there are no sub-classes available in the game. This is being discussed and it’s possible that they will be added for higher level characters.

Will players be able to have characters on more than one server without paying additional fees?
There will be one monthly fee to play WoW and it will apply to all of your characters regardless of what server they are on.

What classes have the power to bring someone back from the dead?
Priests, Shaman, Paladins and Warlocks all have the power to bring someone back from the dead. Their strength in doing so vary.

Will players be able to trade with members of the opposite faction?
Currently no, but this is still being decided and will be watched closely in beta.

Are hunters the only class that can use rifles?
No. Warriors and rogues can train in rifles and many other classes have other types of ranged weapons at their disposal.

I’m looking for a guild, is there any place I can go to find one?
Glad you asked! Head on over to our new Guild Recruitment Forums!

Items which are still being decided upon or that I’m not able to speak about (so no answer available at this time):

Will there be a “family rate” to allow a household to share one copy of the game?
How many servers are expected at release?
Player housing & merchants.
Auction system.
Games in taverns.
What is the death penalty system like?

As always, everything listed is subject to change. I will let you all know if/when that happens.