Source: http://web.archive.org/web/20040129141332/http://www.battle.net/forums/wow/thread.aspx?FN=wow-general&T=874204&P=1&ReplyCount=18#post874204


Here are some answers to a few of the questions posted within the forums:

· Will patches be released around the world months apart as has been the case in some other games?

Blizzard is striving to have patches released simultaneously all around the world. From time to time there may be some delays, but it’s anticipated that these delays would be minimal.

· What (if any) will the guild perks be?

Customizable Guild Tabards
Private Guild Chat Channel
Guild Dungeon Instances

There will be other non-tangible perks associated with being in a guild such as having a large social network, being able to raid in zones that require more than one group working in unison and the ability to help each other with trade skill items.

While guild housing is something that the development team wants to add to the game, at this time, they don’t believe it will be ready at the time the game ships.

· What are the racial traits?

Currently, I’ve only got the answer for three of the races:
Dwarves: Find Treasure & Frost Resistance
Humans: Additional Skill Points
Undead:Underwater Breathing, Immune to Charm, Fear & Sleep and Shadow Resistance

· Because Paladins need to use a skill to wield swords, will they be able to get their sword skill as high as their hammer skill?

Yes.

· Will players have the ability to change factions (from Horde to Alliance)?

No, but it will be possible to learn languages and communicate with players of the opposing faction.

· Quest Loot vs Crafted Items – which is better?

The development team is working very hard to balance this. There will be better items in each. For example, at level 5 you might quest for the “best” boots in the game and the “best” gloves will be crafted. Whereas at level 7 the “best” boots would be crafted and the “best” gloves will be quested for (best meaning better stats for that level/race/class).

· As a shape shifter, what forms can a druid take?

There will be many forms available to druids, at this time I can tell you three of them: Bears, Cats & Aquatic (similar to a sea lion).

· Will there be Epic Quests?

Yes! We’re calling them Life Quests.

· Can players change the way their guild emblem will look?

Yes, players will be able to modify their emblems as follows:
Select a Symbol
Select the Color of the Symbol
Modify the Border
Select a Color for the Border
Select a Color for the Background

· Will quests vary in difficulty?

Yes, at each level there will be quests that vary in their degree of difficulty. Of course easier quests will give lower experience and/or lesser items whereas the harder quests will give high experience and/or more desired items.

There will also be “elite” quests in the game. Elite quests will yield much more experience then normal quests and the rewards will be exceptional as well. It will generally take a group (or in some cases, groups) of people to complete an elite quest.

· Will Horde & Alliance players be able to group together?

At this time, No.

· What classes can duel wield?

Rogues can naturally duel wield, under certain situations other melee classes will be able to as well. (Sorry can’t disclose what these “certain situations” are at this time.)

· Will there be items/spells to increase underwater breathing durations?

Yes, both spells and items will be available to increase underwater breathing beyond the 90 seconds.

· Items which are still being decided upon or that I’m not able to speak about (so no answer available at this time):

RP & PvP Servers
Progression Past Level 60
Brewing
Hunter Fighting/Focus Information
Estimated Time to Max a Character


As always, everything listed is subject to change. I will let you all know if/when that happens.

~Kat :) 