The Mage

When a fan of the fantasy genre envisions the Mage, they envision a single being able to manipulate magical and elemental energies to form spells of massive destructive power. The Mage in World of Warcraft is this being and more… Everquest players will most likely relate the World of Warcraft Mage to the Wizard of Everquest with a touch of Everquest Magician.

The World of Warcraft Mage has a line of spells to manipulate Frost and Flame, as well as the added ability and utility of conjuration. Unlike the Warlock, the Mage cannot summon pets or servants to do their bidding in battle. The Mage relies on their ability to decimate the ranks of the opposing force through direct damage and area effect spells along with special lines of spells that hinder their opponent’s movement and attack speed.

Utility Spells

Among the Mage’s arsenal of utility spells is a veritable cornucopia of magic. One of the more important of the Mage’s utility spells is Food and Water conjuration. Unlike other games in the genre, Food and Water are integral to a World of Warcraft player’s health and mind rejuvenation. This ability alone will make having a Mage around extremely convenient and beneficial to an adventuring party.

Other spells in the utility line of the Mage’s spellbook include a spell called Khadgar’s Unlocking, which will find much use in opening the myriad locked chests and doors in the World of Warcraft. Reducing falling damage via a cast of Feather Fall is also among the utility spellbook of the Mage. Naturally, the World of Warcraft Mage has a form of self-only Invisibility, allowing them to be cloaked from the vision/sight of both friend and foe alike. The Mage also has a special Armor line of spells called Frost Armor, which acts as both an enhancement to the Mage’s Armor Class as well as a Damage Shield for any that may strike at the Mage with melee. The tertiary effect on the Frost Armor line is to actually slow the attack speed of the aggressor.

Lastly of note in the utility lineup of the Mage spellbook are their Portals. Mages receive the ability to port or ‘gate’ themselves to the various cities in the World of Warcraft and at later levels, through some ritual conjurations, allow the more powerful of the Mage caste to open portals to the cities of Warcraft for entire groups.

The Power to Crush Thine Enemies (Damage/Nukes)

Uncontested in the World of Warcraft is the ability of the Mage to damage their opponents through the use of direct damage (nukes) and area of effect spells (AE). Unfortunately, I was only allowed a taste of what the Mage of Warcraft brings to the table, but I am happy to share what information I have with the readers of this update.

To list just a few, the World of Warcraft Mage has the means to cast the following spells:

Frost Bolt: A high damage nuke that also slows the movement rate of the opponent (snare).

Fireball: A high damage, very long range fire based nuke.

Arcane Missiles: I call this the Machine Gun of Doom. The Mage channels Arcane Missile for five seconds, each second that passes fires off another missile at the enemy (or multiple enemies)..

Frost Nova: One of myriad Mage AE spells. Frost Nova is a Point Blank Area of Effect spell that radiates outward from the Mage, causing low damage but freezing in place all in its destructive path. Said to be a useful escape tool, among other things.

Blizzard: A standard high damage area of effect spell that damages multiple enemies within range of the Mage.

An additional note about the Mage: Still undergoing testing and development is the Mage’s ability to cast various forms of Illusions. Note, this MAY not make it into Final, but it sure would be nice ;)

__
__


The Druid

Asking a Druid in the World of Warcraft for a port will more than likely get one maimed; likewise for those that wish for a cast of ye olde’ Spirit of Wolf. Expect former Everquest Druids turned World of Warcraft Druids to shapeshift into a Bear and maul you to death for such insolence. Just remember this, you have been warned.

The Druid of World of Warcraft was designed as a ‘Jack of All Trades’ type of character – yet master of none. Key abilities of the Druid include the ability to Shapeshift into various animal forms, some formidable in their own right, others as innocuous critters and beasties, best used for scouting and possibly ambush of the enemy. Along with the power of the Druid to Shapeshift comes a full spellbook. At its core, the druid is a powerful healer (when not in animal form).

Shapeshifter

Currently the Druid has the ability to Shapeshift into two forms: Bear and Cat.

As a Bear, the Druid becomes a Warrior. While not having anywhere near the abilities of a pure Warrior, the Druid in Bearform is granted a Rage bar and some of the key abilities available to the pure Warrior. It has to be noted that while in this form, the Druid cannot cast spells. Do not be fooled, however, into thinking a Shapeshifted Druid in Bear form will not make a formidable tank. With the loss of their spellcasting power, they make tangible gains in the ability to take and dish out some damage.

As a Cat, the Druid takes on the abilities of the Rogue. Key to these abilities is the ability to Stealth and Scout. Some of the damage dealing capabilities of the Rogue may also be granted to the Druid in Cat form.

Spellcasting Druid

When the Druid is not in the form of an animal, they gain the ability to cast spells. A Druid makes for a powerful healer and has the ability to also dish out some damage via nukes. Also granted to the Druid in Druid form is the ability to cast an outdoor Root (Tangling Roots), to stop their enemy in their tracks, immobilizing them outright. Again, the drawback to being a Jack-of-All-Trades is that the Druid gives up many of the instant cast heals and more powerful Area of Effect Heals the Priest class has available for use.

The name of the game for the World of Warcraft Druid is versatility. This versatility will guarantee a spot for the Druid in any adventuring party.

Note: While only two of the Druid’s Shapeshifting classes have been listed in this update, I was ASSURED that there will definitely be more forms that the Druid will be able to take later in their life. Some of these forms may augment the Druid’s ability to swim and others may be used in PvP warfare *GRIN*.

Additional Notes: "The Druid in caster form will be balanced to compete with the healing capabilities of the Priest. While he will not have the same versatility in healing, his raw healing output will be similar. Groups ideally will be equally happy having either a Priest or Druid in the group for healing." (R. Pardo)